What causes a steeper SML slope?
Higher levels of investor risk aversion
What reduces WACC?
If the market risk premium declines
What is the NPV method?
Is assumes that cash flows will be reinvested 
at the WACC
What is the IRR method?
It assumes reinvestment at the IRR
Operating expenses are?
Ongoing costs a company pays to run its basic business
What is the goal of finance management?
To make more money or add value to the owners of the firm
As rates increase, bond prices will ________. As debt increases, risk will _________.
Decrease, Increase
Premuim bond is?
Selling for higher than the face value of the bond
What is annuity?
Series of regular payments
Accounting insolveny is?
When companies liabilities exceeds its assets
Total gain or loss consists of?
Capital gain or loss plus any income you received
What is range?
The simplest measure of risk
What is (RM-RF)?
Market Risk premium
What is B(RM-RF)?
Risk Premium
Higher the risk equals?
Higher the reurn of investment
Debenture is what?
A bond without collateral
Face Value, Par Value, and Maturity Value all equal what?
$1000
Bearer bonds are?
Owner of the bonds
What is Par bond?
When you sell at par value
Discount bond is?
When the bond selles lesser than the par value
What does B stand for in Finance?
Beta of a stock
When a company borrows money from a bank or sells bonds, it is called?
Debt Finanacing
To get the operating cash flow, given the net income, we add back what?
Depreciation 
Maturity bonds are what kind of debt?
Long term
A note is what?
A loan less than 10 years
A bid price is?
What a customer is willing to pay
IRR is measured as a?
Percent
Can a firm spend its operating cash flow?
Yes
What is cost of debt?
The return the bank or bondholder demands on new borrowing
Finance is?
The art and science of managing wealth
Three main functions of a financial manager are?
Capital Budgeting, Capital Structure, and Working Capital Management
Probability Distribution must always add to?
One
What is the Volcker Rule?
Insured institutions may not engage in proprietary trading
Longing a stock is?
Buying a stock thinking it will appreciate
Shorting a tock is?
Buying an instrument to profit in a down market
Increase in interest rate has what affect on supply?
Increase in supply
Pecking Order is?
How mature companies finance their growth
Cedit unions are?
Nonprofit organizations 
Lagging economic indicatord happens?
After the economy changes
Lower GDP is?
Recession
1. A business that is owned by one person is calledd
   1. A sole proprietorship

1. What is similar to a proprietorship except that there are two or more owners 
   1. A partnership

1. What's the definition of liquidity
   1. the speed and ease with which an asset can be converted to cash

1. The difference between a firm's current assets and its current liabilities is called
   1.  net working capital

1. The use of debt in a firm's capital structure is called
   1.  financial leverage

1. The true value of any asset is 
   1.  Its market value

1. What is the market value
   1.  the amount of cash we would get if we actually sold it

1. The firm's assets on the balance sheet are called
   1.  book values

1. The income statement equation is
   1.  revenues minus expenses equals income

1. The equation for earnings per share is
   1.  net income divided by total shares outstanding

1. The equations for dividends per share is
   1.  total dividends divided by total shares outstanding

1. Expenses charged against revenues that do not directly affect cash flow are called
   1.  non-cash items

1.  An example of a non-cash item would be
   1.  Depreciation

1. What is marginal tax rate
   1.  the extra tax you would pay if you earned one more dollar

1. When you divide your tax bill by your taxable income that's called
   1.  your average tax rate

1. What are the three components that are involved in cash flow from assets
   1.  operating cash flow, capital spending, change in net working capital

1. The simple definition of operating cash flow is
   1.  Cash generated from a firm's normal business activities

1. When calculating ocf what are two things you don't want to include
   1.  interest and depreciation 

1. Can net capital spending be negative? 
   1. Yes, this would be possible if the firm sold off more assets than it purchased. 

1.  What is another name for cash flow from assets
   1.  free cash flow

1. When you want to compare financial statement what are those types of statements called
   1.  common-size statements

1. What is the definition of common-size statements
   1.  a standardized financial statement presenting all  items in percentages terms. 

1. What are financial ratios?
   1.  relationships determined from a firm's financial information and used for comparison purposes

1. What is another name for quick ratio
   1.  acid test 

1. What is the equation for quick ratio
   1.   current assets minus inventory divided by current liabilities

1. What is the cash ratio?
   1. Cash divided by current liabilities

1. What is the total debt ratio?
   1.  total assets minus total equity divided by total assets

1.  how do you find receivables turnover?
   1.   sales divided by account receivable

1. To make the receivables turnover answer more understandable what do you have to do?
   1. Take the receivables turnover and divide it by 365 to see how many days

1. How do we calculate ROE?
   1. Profit margin times total asset turnover times Equity multiplier

1. What is the difference between ROA and ROE?
   1.  the reflection of the use of financial leverage

1. If you want to find out how much money you need to invest in order to have a certain amount in the future what formula do you have to use?
   1. FV=PV*(1+i)^t
   
   Essentials of Corporate Finance

 

What is the financial topics are grouped into four main areas?

1. Corporate finance 2. Investments 3. Financial institutions 4. International finance

 

What is the process of planning and managing a firm’s long-term investments?

Capital budgeting

 

What is the mixture of debt and equity maintained by a firm?

Capital structure

 

What is a firm’s short-term assets and liabilities?

Working capital

 

What is a business owned by a single individual?

Sole proprietorship

 

What is a business formed by two or more individuals or entities?

Partnership

 

What is a business created as a distinct legal entity owned by one or more individuals or entities?

Corporation

 

The goal of financial management

Profit Maximization

 

General Financial Management Goal

Maximize the market value of the existing owners' equity

 

What is the possibility of conflict of interest between the owners and management of a firm?

Agency problem

 

What is the someone other than a stockholder or creditor who potentially has a claim on the cash flows of the firm?

Stakeholder

 

What is the financial statement showing a firm’s accounting value on a particular date?

Balance sheet

 

What is the current assets less current liabilities?

Networking capital

 

What is the common set of standards and procedures by which audited financial statements are prepared?

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)

 

What is the financial statement summarizing a firm’s performance over a period of time?

Income statement

 

What is the expenses charged against revenues that do not directly affect cash flow, such as depreciation?

Noncash items

 

What is the total taxes paid divided by total taxable income?

Average tax rate

 

What is the amount of tax payable on the next dollar earned?

Marginal tax rate

 

What is the total of cash flow to creditors and cash flow to stockholders, consisting of the following: operating cash flow, capital spending, and change in networking capital?

Cash flow from assets

 

What is the cash generated from a firm’s normal business activities?

Operating cash flow

 

What is another name for cash flow from assets?

Free cash flow

 

What is a firm’s interest payments to creditors less net new borrowings?

Cash flow to creditors

 

What is the dividends paid out by a firm less net new equity raised?

Cash flow to stockholders

 

What is a standardized financial statement presenting all items in percentage terms, Balance sheet items are shown as a percentage of assets and income statement items as a percentage of sales?

 

common-size statement

 
