Q: What is one way to go about estimating the levels of risk aversion we might expect to observe in practice?
A: To observe individuals’ decisions when confronted with risk. 
Q: What does the capital allocation line (CAL) depict?
A: The CAL depicts all the risk-return combinations available to investors.
Q: What does the slope of the CAL equal?
A: The slope of CAL (S) equals the increase in the expected return of the complete portfolio per unit of additional standard deviation. 
Q: What does the security market line (SML) portray?
A: The SML portrays the expected return-beta relationship (graphically).
Q: What is a stock’s alpha?
A: A stock’s alpha is the difference between the fair and actually expected rates of return on a stock.
Q: What is the liquidity of an asset?
A: The liquidity of an asset is the ease and speed with which it can be sold at fair market value. 
Q: How can illiquidity be measured?
A: Illiquidity can be measured in part by the discount from fair market value a seller must accept if the asset is to be sold quickly.
Q: A perfectly liquid asset is one that would entail no illiquidity discount.
A: True.
Q: What is the single-factor model?
A: r_i=E(r_i )+ β_i F+e_i
Q: What are coefficients sometimes called?
A: Factor sensitivities, factor loadings, or factor betas.
Q: What does the Law of One Price state?
A: The Law of One Price states that if two assets are equivalent in all economically relevant respects, then they should have the same market price. 
Q: What does the strong-form version of the efficient market hypothesis state?
A: The strong-form version of the efficient market hypothesis states that stock prices reflect all information relevant to the firm, even including information available only to company insiders. 
Q: What is technical analysis?
A: Technical analysis is essentially the search for recurrent and predictable patterns in stock prices.

Q: What does fundamental analysis represent?
A: It represents an attempt to determine the present discounted value of all the payments a stockholder will receive from each share of stock. 
Q: What is the pure exchange rate risk?
A: Exchange rate risk is the risk borne by investments in foreign safe assets.
Q: What does currency selection measure?
A: Currency selection measures the contribution to total portfolio performance attributable to exchange rate fluctuations relative to the investor’s benchmark currency, which we will take to be the U.S. dollar. 
Q: What does country selection measure?
A: Country selection measures the contribution to performance attributable to investing in the better-performing stock markets of the world. 
Q: How can stock selection be measured?
A: Stock selection ability may be measured as the weighted average of equity returns in excess of the equity index in each country.
Q: How can cash/bond selection be measured?
A: Cash/bond selection may be measured as the excess return derived from weighting bonds and bills differently from some benchmark weights. 
Q: What are the three basic factors that determine the real interest rate?
A: Supply, demand, and government actions.
Q: How can we state the so-called Fisher equation?
A: R=r+E(i)
Q: What is the effective annual rate (EAR)?
A: The percentage increase in funds invested over a 1-year horizon.
Q: What is the excess return?
A: The difference in any particular period between the actual rate of return on a risky asset and the risk-free rate. 
Q: The degree to which investors are willing to commit funds to stocks depends on?
A: Risk aversion. 
Q: What is the Sharpe ratio (for portfolios)?
A: Sharpe ratio (for portfolios)=  (Risk Premium)/(SD of excess return)

Q: What is Kurtosis?
A: Kurtosis is a measure of the degree of fat tails.
Q: What is Kurtosis equal to?
A: Kurtosis=  〖E[r(s)-E(r)]〗^4/σ^4 -3
Q: What is the formula for Skew?
A: Skew=  〖E[r(s)-E(r)]〗^3/σ^3 
Q: If the true distribution of continuously compounded returns is normal, both kurtosis and skewness should be?
A: Zero. 
Q: What does CTE stand for?
A: Conditional tail expectation.
Q: What is an appropriate measure of risk for non-normal distributions is the standard deviation computed solely from values below the expected return?
A: This is a measure of “downside risk” and is called the lower partial standard deviation (LPSD).
Q: What is the conditional tail expectation?
A: Expectation of a random variable conditional on its falling below some threshold value. Often used as a measure of down-side risk. 
Q: A risky investment with a risk premium of zero is sometimes called what?
A: A fair game. 
Q: What do investors who are risk averse reject?
A: Investors who are risk averse reject investment portfolios that are fair games or worse. 
Q: What is the utility score?
A: U=E(r)-1⁄2 Aσ^2
Q: What do risk-neutral investors judge?
A: Risk-neutral investors judge risky prospects solely by their expected rates of return. 
Q: What do risk lovers engage in?
A:  A risk lover is willing to engage in fair games and gambles; this investor adjusts the expected return upward to take into account the “fun” of confronting the prospect’s risk. 
Q: The Sharpe ratio is also referred to as?
A: The reward-to-volatility ratio.
Q: The expected return of the complete portfolio equation is equal to?
A: E(r_C )=r_f+y[E(r_P )-r_f ]
Q: The variance of the overall portfolio is?
A: σ_C^2=y^2 σ_P^2
Q: What does a passive strategy describe?
A: A passive strategy describes a portfolio decision that avoids any direct or indirect security analysis. 
Q: What is the capital market line (CML)?
A: The capital allocation line provided by 1-month T-bills and a broad index of common stocks. 
Q. What is the insurance principle?
A: The reduction of risk to very low levels in the case of independent risk sources. 
Q: What is the risk that remains even after extensive diversification?
A: Market risk. 
Q: Market risk is also known as?
A: Systematic risk or nondiversifiable risk. 
Q: The risk that can be eliminated by diversification is called?
A: Unique risk, firm-specific risk, nonsystematic risk, or diversifiable risk. 
Q: The minimum-variance portfolio has a standard deviation of what?
A: The minimum-variance portfolio has a standard deviation smaller than that of either of the individual component assets.
Q: What is the portfolio opportunity set?
A: The expected return-standard deviation pairs of all portfolios that can be constructed from a given set of assets. 
Q: What is the reward-to-volatility (Sharpe) ratio?
A: The reward-to-volatility (Sharpe) ratio is the slope of the CAL combining T-bills and the minimum-variance portfolio. 
Q: What is the optimal risky portfolio?
A: Optimal risky portfolio is an investor’s best combination of risky assets to be mixed with safe assets to form the complete portfolio. 



Q: What is the minimum-variance frontier?
A: The frontier is a graph of the lowest possible variance that can be attained for a given portfolio expected return. 
Q: What is the part of the frontier that lies above the global minimum-variance portfolio?
A: The efficient frontier of risky assets.
Q: What is a separation property?
A: A separation property is the property that portfolio choice can be separated into two independent tasks: (1) determination of the optimal risky portfolio, which is purely technical problem, and (2) the personal choice of the best mix of the risky portfolio and the risk-free asset.
Q: What does SCL stand for?
A: Security characteristic line.
Q: What is the security characteristic line? 
A: The security characteristic line (SCL) is a plot of the excess return on a security over the risk-free rate as a function of the excess return on the market.
Q: What is the book-to-market effects?
A: The tendency for stocks of firms with high ratios of book-to-market value to generate abnormal returns. 
Q: What does the M^2 measure focus on?
A: The  M^2measure focuses on total volatility as a measure of risk, but its risk-adjusted measure of performance has the easy interpretation of a differential return relative to the benchmark index. 
Q: M^2 is equal to:
A: M^2= r_(P*)-r_M
Q: The risk profile of hedge funds may change rapidly.
A: True.
Q: Hedge funds have greater leeway than what?
A: Hedge funds have far greater leeway than mutual funds to change investment strategy opportunistically. 
Q: Hedge funds tend to invest in what type of assets?
A: Illiquid assets.
Q: Many hedge funds pursue what type of strategies?
A: Many hedge funds pursue strategies that may provide apparent profits over long periods of time, but expose the fund to infrequent but severe losses. 

Q: When hedge funds are evaluated as a group, what can be a major consideration?
A: When hedge funds are evaluated as a group, survivorship bias can be a major consideration, because turnover in this industry is far higher than for investment companies such as mutual funds.
Q: What pays the risk-free return when the market is bearish?
A: The portfolio.
Q: The attribution method explains the difference in returns between a managed portfolio, P, and a selected benchmark portfolio, B, is called?
A: Bogey.
Q: What is the bogey portfolio’s rate of return?
A: r_B=∑_(i=1)^n▒〖W_Bi r_Bi 〗
Q: What is Sharpe’s measure?
A: Sharpe’s measure is the reward-to-volatility ratio; ratio of portfolio excess return to standard deviation.
Q: What is the dollar-weighted rate of return?
A: The dollar-weighted rate of return is the internal rate of return on an investment.
Q: What is the comparison universe?
A: The comparison universe is the collection of money managers of similar investment style used for assessing relative performance of a portfolio manager. 
Q: What is the information ratio?
A: The information ratio is a ratio of alpha to the standard deviation of diversifiable risk. 

Q: What is a Hedge Fund
A: a limited partnership of investors that uses high risk methods, such as investing with borrowed money, in hopes of realizing large capital gains
Q: what is a tranche
A: a portion of something, especially money
Q: What is a stock
A: An equity security that is a purchased ownership interest in a company entitling you to a portion or profits
Q: What is a corporate bond
A: debt instrument issued by a company that acts as a loan when you invest in the bond. 
Q: What is a government bond
A: bond issued by the US federal government; commonly used bond to help finance national debt
Q: What is a municipal bond
A: debt securities from state and local government entities
Q: What is a mutual fund
A: A fund made up of a variety of diversified securities
Q: what is a stock option
A: the right to buy or sell stock at a certain price for a period of time
Q: what is a call option
A: the right to buy a stock for a specified price 
Q: what is a put option
A: the right to sell a stock for a specified price
Q: What is a futures contract
A: an agreement to sell a specific commodity at a specified price at a future date
Q: What is a futures option
A: The right to buy or sell a futures contract at a certain price for a specified period of time
Q: What type of security is a stock option?
A: a derivative security
Q: What type of security is a futures contract
A: a derivative security
Q: Who sets the laws regulating the trading of securities
A: The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
Q: What type of security is a mutual fund
A: It is an equity security
Q: What type of security is a bond
A: A debt security
Q: What is the Pecking Order Theory
A: that firms have a preferred order of funds/capital sources that they use in order
Q: What is the intrinsic value of a stock
A: value based on the company’s fundamentals
Q: What is the market value of a stock
A: value based on marginal investments of the stock in the market
Q: What is pairs trading
A: a market-neutral trading strategy that matches a long position with a short position in a pair of highly correlated securities
Q: What is active trading
A: buying and selling securities on short-term durations to profit from rapid price movements 
Q: What is day trading
A: A method of active trading that buys and sells securities within the same day
Q: What is position trading
A: Uses long-term charts and other methods to determine the trends of the market to trade
Q: What is the bid price of a security
A: the maximum price that a buyer is willing to pay for a security
Q: What is the ask price of a security
A: The minimum that a seller is willing to receive for a security
Q: What is the bid-ask spread
A: The difference between the bid price and the ask price of a security
Q: What is arbitrage
A: Buying and selling securities simultaneously to make a risk-free return
Q: What is the efficient frontier
A: the set of optimal portfolios that offers the highest expected return for a defined level of risk
Q: What is a portfolio
A: a range of investments held by a person or organization 
Q: What is diversification 
A: the process of a mixing a wide variety of investments within a portfolio
Q: What is an interest rate swap
A: switches the interest rate a between fixed or floating rate
Q: What is the security market line
A: SML shows how much inventors require in return for the systematic risk for their investment
Q: Who first formulated single period portfolio optimization using mean and variance
A: Markowitz
Q: What is the input for a Markowitz portfolio
A: Expected returns, standard deviations, and correlation matrix between each asset
Q: What is the law of one price
A: if two securities have the same payoff in all states of the world, then the two securities must have the same price
Q: What is a market neutral strategy
A: Market risk is removed by using pairs trading with uncorrelated market returns
Q: What is portfolio insurance
A: replicating a protected put through watching delta and trading to lower the risk and insure the portfolio
Q: What is a callable bond
A: a bond that a company can buy back at any time at a specified price
Q: what is a putable bond
A: a bond that can be sold by the holder at any time
Q: What is an ETF
A: an electronically traded fund that is traded like a stock within the market
Q: What is the purpose of the Black Scholes Model
A: to price options
Q: what is a commodity 
A: a raw material that can be bought and sold
Q: An unsystematic risk that can be eliminated but market risk 
A: Remaining risk
Q: The type of risk that is avoidable through diversification
A: Unsystematic risk
Q: Risk that can’t be avoided through diversification 
A: Systematic risk
Q: Measure of the degree to which two securities move together
A: Covariance
Q: Aggressive stock will have a low or high beta
A: High
Q: What is the characteristic line
A: line that represents the relationship between a security’s returns and the returns on the market portfolio
Q: What is the beta of a risk-free security
A: Zero
Q: Beta is the slope of what line
A: a characteristic line
Q: What does beta measure
A: the unavoidable risk of a security
Q: what is a company or individual that prefer low-risk and low-return investments
A: Risk-averse
Q: What is the measure of share price volatility
A: beta
Q: Modern portfolio theory was introduced in 1952 by 
A: Markowitz
Q: What is the starting point of a capital market line
A: risk-free return
Q: What is the utility curve
A: An investor’s indifference curve
Q: What is an investment strategy that reduces portfolio risk without reducing return
A: diversification
Q: What is an optimal portfolio
A: an efficient portfolio that maximizes an investor’s preferences of risk and return
Q: What does delta measure in an option
A: the degree to which an option is exposed to shifts in the price of a specific asset
Q: What is the hedge ratio
A: the ratio which compares the value of futures contracts to the value of the cash commodity being hedged
Q: What is hedging
A: an investment position intended to offset potential losses or gains that may be incurred by a companion investment



Q: What is the utility score do as the rate of return increases
A: increase
Q: What is the utility score formula
A:  Utility Score = Expected Return – 0.005σ2 × Risk Aversion Coefficient
Q: What is the CAPM equation
A: Expected return- Rf + Beta (Rm – Rf) 
Q: What does the Sharpe ratio measure
A: Indicates the average return minus the risk-free return divided by the standard deviation of return on an investment
Q: What is liquidity
A: the availability of liquid assets to a market or company
Q: What is the liquidity ratio
A: The ratio between liquid assets and the liabilities of an institution
Q: What does the Fisher Equation tell us
A: the relationship between nominal and real interest rates under inflation
Q: What is the Fisher Equation
A: real interest rate ≈ nominal interest rate − inflation rate
Q: How do you correct nominal interest rate for inflation
A: subtract the inflation rate from the nominal interest rate
Q: What is market risk
A: systematic risk that can’t be eliminated through diversification 









