What are factors that effect a nation’s economy?
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates
What is a forward contract?
A forward contract is an agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged.
When was the gold standard implemented?
The 1800s and early 1900’s
What does PPP stand for?
Purchasing Power Parity
What is the forward rate formula?
F=S(1 + p)
How is international financial management different from domestic financial management?
Foreign exchange and political risks, market imperfections, and expanded opportunity.
What are the various categories of multinational firms?
Raw materials seekers, market seekers, and cost minimizers.
What is an efficient market?
An efficient market is one in which new information is readily incorporated in the prices of traded securities.
What is the basic message of the CAPM?
Risk is priced in a portfolio context, systematic risk is priced; unsystematic risk is not priced and doesn't affect the required return a project.
How might a multinational firm use the CAPM?
CAPM can be used to estimate the required return on foreign projects.
	What is the goal of Multinational Corporation (MNC)
to maximize shareholder wealth
	What is the World Trade Organization (WTO)?
WTO was established by General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to provide a forum for multilateral trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes since 1994.
	What are the details of licensing?
Copyrights, patents, trademarks, or trade names in exchange for fees or some other benefits.
What is foreign exchange risk?
The risk of valuation changes resulting from unforeseen currency movements.
What are indirect methods of adjusting funds flow?
Adjust transfer prices, leading and lagging receivables
What is arbitrage?
The simultaneous purchase and sale of the same assets or commodities on different markets to profit from price discrepancies.
What is the International Fisher effect?
Parody condition that says that interest differential between two countries should be an unbiased predictor of the future change in the spot rate
What is currency forecasting?
Prediction of future exchange rates.
What is market-based forecast?
Forecast that rely on information already embedded in market prices.
What are the balances of trade?
= exports – imports
Factors Affecting International Trade Flows
Impact of Inflation, National Income, Government Restrictions, Exchange Rates
What is the impact of inflation?
A relative increase in a country's inflation rate will decrease its current account, as imports increase and exports decrease.
What are the factors that effect DFI?
Changes in Restrictions, Privatization, Potential Economic Growth, Tax Rates, Exchange Rates
What is foreign exchange market?
Allows currencies to be exchanged in order to facilitate international trade or financial transactions.
What are Factors that Influence Exchange Rates?
Spot rate, inflation rate, interest rate, income level, government control, expectations of future exchange rates.
What are BRIC countries?
Brazil, Russia, India, and China
What are BIITS countries?
Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, which are also termed the fragile five.
What are MINT countries?
Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria, Turkey
What are MID rates?
The middle or the average of the rates at which currency traders buy currency.
What are Eurocurrencies?
domestic currencies of one country on deposit in a second country
What are Institutions?
Are the central banks, commercial, and investment banks. Their health keeps the global financial system stable.
What are Multinational enterprise (MNE)?
Is a company that is incorporated in one country and has production and distribution facilities in other countries?
What is the definition of Foreign Exchange?
The money of a foreign country (foreign currency bank balances, banknotes, checks and drafts) in relation to the home currency.
What is a transnational corporation?
A MNE whose ownership is widely spread; managed from a global perspective.
What is the purpose of the "International Parity Conditions"?
Economic theory that links FX rates, price levels and interest rates and therefore explains changes in FX rates.
What is a forward premium/discount?
The percentage difference between the spot and the forward exchange rate.
What is the so-called agency problem?
Separation of ownership from management with the objectives may not be perfectly aligned
What are possible ways of corporate governance regimes?
market-based, family-based, bank-based, government affiliated
What are the three main IMF Exchange Rate Classifications?
Hard Pegs, Soft Pegs, Floating Arrangements
What are some ways firms can engage in international business?
Importing and exporting, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company. 
What are examples of direct foreign investment?
Joint venture, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company.
What is direct foreign investment?
Buying a controlling stake in foreign operations.
What does direct foreign investment represent?
Direct foreign investment represents long-term investment, which countries like.
What are the two accounts that make up the balance of payments?
The current account and the capital account.
How do you calculate the current account balance?
current account = exports – imports
What does it mean if the current account is negative?
If the current account is negative, we import more than we export.
What does the financial account include?
The financial account includes all portfolio and direct foreign investments.
What is portfolio investment?
Portfolio investment it buying non-controlling stake in a company.
What should the sum of the financial account and the current account be? 
zero
What are trade frictions?
Trade frictions are ways to lessen the amount of imports and exports internationally traded.
What happens to the current account when US inflation increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What happens to the current account when U.S national income increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What is a foreign exchange market?
It is a market in which you exchange currencies.
What is a direct quote?
A direct quote is quoted in the amount of US dollars for the other currency.
What is an indirect quote?
An indirect quote is quoted in the amount of the foreign currency for US dollars.
What is a cross exchange rate?
Any quote not including US dollars.
What is a Eurodollar account?
It is a US dollar denominated account abroad.
Is there a reserve requirement on Eurodollar accounts?
No, there is no reserve requirement for Eurodollar accounts.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond that is not denominated in the country’s currency that it is sold in.
What is an example of a Eurobond?
An example could be a yen denominated bond sold in Brazil.
What is a foreign bond?
A foreign bond is a bond that is sold in another country.
What is an example of a foreign bond?
An example could be a Japanese bond denominated in yen.
Do bonds have more protective covenants than Eurobonds?
Bonds do have more protective covenants than Eurobonds.
What are some factors that affect exchange rates?
Inflation, income, interest rates, etc.
What are some types of exchange rate systems?
Fixed, freely floating, managed floating, and pegged.
What is a fixed exchange rate system?
In a fixed exchange rate system, the exchange rate is held constant or given small room to fluctuate.
How are exchange rates determined in a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rates are determined by market forces and have no intervention by governments.
Can governments intervene in a managed float exchange rate system?
Yes, governments are allowed to intervene.
What is a pegged exchange rate system?
A pegged exchange rate system is when the home currency is pegged to another foreign currency or to an index of currencies. 
What is arbitrage?
Capitalizing on different quoted prices and making a profit.
What are types of arbitrages?
Locational arbitrage, triangular arbitrage, and covered interest arbitrage.
What is locational arbitrage?
Locational arbitrage is when a currency is bought at a place that is priced low and sold at a different place that is priced higher.
What does triangular arbitrage capitalize on?
Discrepancies between cross exchange rates.
What is interest rate parity?
Interest rate parity is when interest rates and exchange rates adjust so covered interest arbitrages cannot happen.
What does the interest rate parity line represent?
It represents the spots where covered interest arbitrages are not possible.
What are the main components to the current account?
Payments for goods and services, factor income, and transfers.
What is dumping?
Dumping is when goods that were produced with help from government subsidies are exported.
What are examples of the influential factors of international trade?
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates.
What is intracompany trade?
Intracompany trade is when companies purchase products that are produced by their subsidies.
What is an agency problem?
a conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders 
What are some the common methods that MNCs use to improve their internal control process?
establish a centralized database of information, ensure all data is reported consistently among subsidiaries, implement a system that automatically checks data for discrepancies
Who may be able to prevent agency problems in an MNC?
a parent corporation
What percentage of small businesses account for U.S exports?
20%
What is the main goal of an MNC?
maximize shareholder wealth
What are the most common ways firms conduct international business?
international trade, licensing, franchising, joint venture, acquisitions of foreign firms and formation of foreign subsidiaries
What does the valuation model of an MNC show?
It shows that the MNC valuation is affected when its foreign cash flows rise or when the MNCs required rate of return decreases
What factors affect international trade?
inflation, national income, government policies, exchange rates
What is a tariff?
a tax on an imported good
Where does the most common type of foreign exchange transaction occur?
spot market 
What is the formula to find the bid/ask spread of a transaction?
bid/ask spread= ask rate-bid rate/ ask rate
What is a currency call option?
a currency call option provides the right to buy a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time
What is a currency put option?
a currency put option provides the right to sell a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond that is sold in countries other than the country of the currency denominating the bond. 
What are international money markets composed of?
international money markets are composed of several large banks that accept deposits and make short term loans in various currencies
What are the 5 common approaches when diversifying international stock?
direct purchase of foreign stock, investment in MNC stock, American depository receipts, exchange-traded funds, international mutual funds.
When do banks invest in currency in the foreign market?
when they expect that a certain currency is valued lower than it should be 
What is a forward contract?
An agreement between a corporation and financial institution to exchange a specific amount of currency at a forward rate
What is a non-deliverable forward contract?
A non-deliverable forward contract is an agreement regarding a specific amount of currency, in a specific exchange rate in a specific future date. 
Do corporations have open or closed positions in purchasing foreign currency in the future?
open 
What is an exercise price?
the price at which the owner of a call option is allowed to buy the currency at 
When are call options desired?
When the buyer wants to lock in the maximum price to be paid in the future
In a fixed exchange rate system, do exchange rates fluctuate in a wide or narrow boundary?
narrow boundary 
What is revaluation?
Revaluation is the upward adjusted of the exchange rate by a central bank
What is appreciation?
the increase in the value of currency that is adjusted with market conditions
How are exchange rate values determined in a freely floating exchange rate system?
they are determined by market forces without government intervention
What is a sterilized intervention?
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market and helps offset transactions in the Treasury security markets.
How can governments affect the supply, demand and equilibrium of currency values?
By using direct intervention
Does a strong US dollar intensify foreign competition?
yes, it does. 
Does a strong US dollar reduce or increase inflation?
reduce
What is arbitrage?
Capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a risk free profit
What three ways is arbitrage presented in the international money markets?
locational arbitrage, triangular arbitrage and covered interest arbitrage
When can you use triangular arbitrage?
When there is a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two currencies.
What is the interest rate parity?
the theory states that the size of the forward premium should be equal to the interest rate difference between two currencies 
What is the absolute form of PPP?
consumers will shift their demand to wherever prices are the lowest.
How can the PPP be tested in the long run?
by using the real exchange rate between two currencies over time
What is the international fisher effect (IFE)?
the IFE specifies a relationship between interest rates of two countries and their exchange rates
What type of currency does forecasting closely follow?
currency that has exchange rates that fluctuate continuously 
What rates does the market-based forecast use?
spot rate or the forward rate
What is translation exposure?
the exposure of the MNC’s consolidated financial statements to exchange rate fluctuations
What is a money market hedge?
The use of international money markets to match future cash flows for a currency.
Is a currency call option holder obligated to buy the currency at the set price?
No, the holder has the option to exercise this right.
What is weak-form efficiency?
It implies that all past and current exchange rate information is reflected in today's exchange rate.
What is semi-strong form efficient?
Semi-strong form efficiency assumes that all public information is reflected in the currency exchange rate.
What is strong-form efficiency?
In foreign exchange markets, that means all private and public information is reflected in the currency exchange rate.
What is a forward contract?
An agreement to exchange a certain amount of currency at a certain rate in the future.
What facilitates the trading of forward contracts?
Forward contracts are facilitated by a forward market.
Who is involved in a forward contract agreement?
A corporation and a financial institution are involved.
What is the bid/ask spread?
The difference between a currencies buying and selling price.
Do multinational corporations use forward contracts?
Yes, they use them to hedge their imports.
How is the percent change in foreign currency calculated?
Percent change in foreign currency value= (S-St-1)/(St-1) where S= spot rate and St-1= spot rate at an earlier date.
How do you calculate real interest rate?
Real interest rate = nominal interest rate - inflation rate.
What is the relationship between interest rates and inflation rates sometimes called?
The Fisher effect.
How can you calculate the return on stock to a US investor who invests in a foreign stock?
R$ = (1+R)(1+e)-1 Where R=return on stock and e= percent change in the exchange rate.
What three barriers have limited international trading of stock?
Transaction costs, information costs, and exchange rate risk.
How have transaction costs been reduced for the international stock exchanges?
One way transaction costs have been reduced is by combining exchanges in a country.
How have information costs been reduced for international stock exchanges?
The internet is the main source of reduced information costs.
How can someone reduce exchange rate risk when dealing in foreign stocks?
The investor can take short term positions in foreign stocks to reduce their risk.
When talking about International Financial Management, what does MNC stand for?
Multinational Corporation.
What is the agency problem?
The agency problem appears when there is conflicting views between the shareholders and the managers of a corporation.
What are the three theories for why a firm pursues international business?
The theory of comparative advantage, imperfect markets, and product life cycle.
What are the four forecasting techniques?
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed.
How do you perform a technical forecast?
To do a technical forecast you use past exchange rate data to predict the future of the currency.
How do you perform a fundamental forecast?
You solve for the percent change in the spot rate by using the relationships between economic variables.
What are some factors that influence the spot rate?
Change in government control, change in expectations of future rates, change in income, and change in interest rates.
What is used in a market-based forecast?
The spot rate and the forward rate.
What is a market-based forecast?
A forecast that uses market indicators as forecasting tools.
What is a mixed forecast?
A forecast that combines multiple forecasting techniques. These can include a technical, fundamental, and market-based techniques.
What do most multinational corporations prefer to use when doing forecasting?
Most MNCs prefer to use mixed forecasts.
What can firms do if they lack the expertise or manpower to make their own forecasts?
Firms can choose to pay for forecasting services that specialize in making forecasts.
Are forecasts made by corporations or forecasting services perfect?
No, forecasts are rarely perfect and are subject to forecasting errors.
Is the forecasting error likely to be higher in the long-run or short-run?
Forecasting becomes harder the longer out you try to forecast, forecasts for 10 years in the future are likely to have large errors.
What can be used to forecast exchange rate volatility?
Recent exchange rate volatility, historical time series of volatility, and implied standard deviation derived from currency options.
What are the three forms of exchange rate exposure a MNC faces?
Transaction exposure, economic exposure, and translation exposure.
How does the International Fisher Effect theory explain exchange rate changes?
It uses the interest rates of countries to explain the exchange rate changes.
What does the Fisher effect suggest about nominal interest rates?
The Fisher effect suggests that nominal interest rates contain two components, the expected interest rate and the real rate of interest.
What do foreign exchange markets allow?
They allow the exchange of one currency for another at set bid and ask prices.
What is a parallel loan?
The agreement to exchange currencies now but also re-exchange them at a later date at a predetermined exchange rate.
How can a MNC hedge for long-term transaction exposure?
They can use Long-term forward contracts and parallel loans.
What are some ways a MNC can reduce risk if a perfect hedging technique doesnt exist?
They can use leading and lagging, cross-hedging, and currency diversification.
What is a multinational corporation (MNC)?
Firms that engage in some form of internation business.
Goal of MNC's is?
For the managers is to maximize the value of the firm.
Conflict of goals between a firm's managers and shareholders is?
Agency Problem
The sarbanes oxley Act (SOX) does what?
Ensures a more transparent process for managers to report on the productivity and financial condition of their firm.
Comparative advantages is?
When a country specializes in some products, which allows firms to penetrate foreign markets.
Imperfect market is?
Conditions where factors of prodcution are some what immobile.  Costs, and often restrictions related to transfer of labor.
When firms become established in the home market as a result of some perceived advantage over existing competitors is a?
Prodcut Cycle Theory.
What is licensing?
Obligates a firm to provide its technology, copy righs, patents, trademarks, or trade name in exchange for fees or some other benefits.
Franchisisng is?
Obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy,support assistance and an initial investment in the franchise for a fee.
This is a venture that is jointly owned and operated by two or more firms.
Joint Ventures
Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investmet in foreign operations is referred to as a?
Diret Foreign Investment (DFI)
The main components of the current account are payment for?
Merchandise, goods, and services, factor income and transfers.
Balance of trade is referred to as?
The difference between total exports and imports.
Factor income represents?
Income interest, and dividend payments received by investors on foreign investments in financial assets (securities)
A third component of the current account is?
Transfer payments
The capital account includes?
The value of financial assets transferred across country borders by people who move to a different country.
Direct foreign investment represents?
The investment in fixed asset in foreign countries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Represents transaction involving long term financial assets between countires that do not affect transfer of control?
Portfolio Investment
Counterpricing by competitors is?
When a country's currency weakens, its prices become more attractive to foreign customers, so then companies lower their prices.
Privatization is?
The selling of some of their operations to corporations and other investors.
This organization was established to provide a forum for multilaterial trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes.
World Trade Organization (WTO)
The foreign exchange market allows?
For the exchange of one currency for another.
Foreign exchange dealers serve as?
Intermediaries in the foreign exchange market by exchanging currencies desired by MNC's or individuals
What is spot rate?
The exchange rate at which one currency is traded for another in the spot market.
The bid/ask spread represents?
The differential between the bid and ask quotes and is intended to cover the costs involved in accommodating requests in exchange.
Quotations that represent the value of a foreign currency in dollars are referred to as?
Direct Quotations
A forward contract is?
An agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, exchange rate and date.
A currency futures contract specifies?
A standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date.
A currency call option provides?
The right to buy a specific currency at a specific price, withing a specific period of time.
A decline in a currency's value is often referred to as?
Depreciation
Currency futures contracts are?
Contracts specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date.
What is a straddle?
Uses both a put option and a call option at the same exercise price.
Fixed exchange rate system is a?
Exchange rate either held constant or allowed to fluctuate only within very narrow boundaries.
This reduces the value of its currency against other currencise?
Devalue
This increases the value of its currency against other currencise?
Revalue
In a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rate values are determined by market forces without invervention by governments.
The European Cenral Bank is?
Based in Frankfurt and is responsible for setting monetary policy for all participating European countries.
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for change in the money supply it is engaging in a ?
Nonsterilized Intervention.
In a sterilized intervention the Fed?
Intervenes in the foreign exchange market and simultaneously engages in offsetting transaction in the Treasury securities market.
Arbitrage can?
Be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit.  
List foour methods that are used to conduct international business.
International trade, licensing, franchising, and jont ventures
What does <MC stand for and what is it defined as?
MNC stands for multinaltional corporations and they are defined as firms that engage in some form of international business..
What is NAFTA?
NAFTA is the North American Free Trade Agreement. It was put into place in 1993. This plan eliminated trade barriers between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.
What changed Europe in 1999?
Several European countries acoped the Euro as their currency for business transactions. This simplified purchases and selling items between nations in Europe. 
Give four factors that influence a nations economy.
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates
What was the result of the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference?
The International Monetary Fund or IMF was formed.
What are the 5 objectives of the IMF. 
1. Promote cooperation amoung countries, 2. Promote stability in exchange rates, 3. Provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances, 4. Promote free mobilit of capital funds across contries, 5. Promote free trade.
What is another name for the World Bank and what are its primary objectives?
Another name for the World Bank is IBRD which stands for International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The primary objective is to make loans to countries to enhance economic development.
What are the two key components of the balance of payments?
The current account and the capital account.
In the late 1800's and early 1900's what were the exchange rates dicted by?
Gold
Give 3 characteristics of banks that are important to customers who are in need of a foreign exchange. 
Competitiveness of quote, special relationship with bank, and the speed of the execution. 
Describe the bid and ask price and also the bid/ask spread.
The bid price is the price at which you can buy the stock and the ask price is the price of selling the stock. The bid/ask spread represents the difference between the bid and ask price and is intended to cover the costs involved in accommodating requests to exchange currencies. 
What is a forward contract and a forward rate?
A forward contract is an agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanges. The forward rate is the exchange rate specified within the forward contract which the currencies will be exchanged. 
What is the Single European Act of 1992?
With this act capital could flow freely throughout Europe, banks can offer a wide variety of lending and leasing in the EU, Regulations are now similar throughout the EU, and a bank that establishes itself in one of the countries in the EU then it has the right to expand into one or all other EU countries.
What is LIBOR?
LIBOR stands for London Interbank Offer Rate. This is the rate commonly charged for loans between banks.
Give three limitations of hedging the exchange rate risk of an international stock portfolio.
One, the number of foreign currency units to be converted to dollars is unknown. Second, investors may decide to retain the foreign stocks beyond the initially planned investment horizon. Finally, forward rates for currencies that are less widely traded may not exist or may exhibit a large discount. 
Name five common approaches for investors attempting international stock diversification.
Direct purchases of foreign stocks, investment in MNC stocks, American depository receipts, Exchange-traded funds, and International mutual funds. 
What is the price at which the owner is allowed to buy that currency?
It is known as the exercise price of the strike price
What is a currency call option?
Grants the right to buy a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time. 
What is a currency bull spread?
A currency bull spread is constructed by buying a call option for a particular underlying currency and simultaneously writing a call option for the same currency with a higher exercise price. 
Name the most frequent four exchange rates.
Fixed, freely floating, managed float, or pegged
Why do central banks commonly manage exchange rates?
To smooth exchange rate movements, to establish implicit exchange rate boundaries, and to respond to temporary disturbances. 
What is an arbitrage?
An arbitrage can be defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices making a riskless profit. 
Name the four groups of methods used to forecast exchange rates.
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed. 
What is mixed forecasting? 
Mixed forecasting is the use of a combination of forecasting techniques because most MNC’s do not believe that one single forecasting technique is consistently superior to the other. 
How do you measure transaction exposure?
First the MNC needs to estimate its net cash flows in each currency and then the MNC needs to measure the potential impact of the currency exposure. 
What is the sensitivity of the firms cash flows to change rate movements referred to as?
Economic Exposure. 
An MNC’s degree of translation exposure is dependent upon what?
The proportion of its business conducted by foreign subsidiaries, the locations of its foreign subsidiaries, and the accounting methods that it uses. 
Name four hedging techniques.
Futures hedge, forward hedge, money market hedge, and currency option hedge.
Hedging a larger amount in currency than the actual transaction amount is called?
Overhedging 
What types of firms are attracted to long-term forward contracts?
A firm that has set up fixed-price exporting or importing contracts over a long period of time and want to protect their cash flow from exchange rate fluctuations. 
What is cross-hedging?
Cross-hedging is when the hedged position is in a currency that serves as a proxy for the currency in which the MNC is exposed. 
What type of diversification can limit the potential effect of any single currency’s movements on the value of an MNC?
Currency Diversification
What is IRP?
IRP stands for interest rate parity. Once a market forces interest rates and exchange rates to adjust such that covered interest arbitrage is no longer feasible.
What are 3 considerations when discussing the IRP?
Transaction costs, political risk, and different tax laws
What does PPP stand for?
PPP stands for Purchasing power parity. This attempts to quantify the inflation exchange rate relationship.
Name the two forms of the PPP theory.
Absolute form of PPP and Relative form of PPP
Does the PPP consistently occur? Why or why not?
The PPP does not consistently occur because of confounding effects and because of the lack of substitutes for some traded goods. 
What does IFE stand for?
IFE stands for International fisher effect. This theory uses interest rate rather than inflation rate differentials to explain why exchange rates change over time. It is closely related to the PPP. 
The fisher affect suggest that the nominal interest rate contains two components. What are they?
One, expected inflation rate, and the real rate of interest. 
What is the Exchange rate mechanism(ERM)? 
The method of linking European currency values with the European currency unit before the euro
What problems did (ERM) have in its time.
The countries were highly influenced by the country with the highest interest rate making it difficult for them to could strengthen their own economy.
What is locational Arbitrage?
The process of buying a currency at the location where it is priced cheap and immediately selling it at another location where it is priced higher.
Is there any risk with locational arbitrage?
No since the banks act immediately and banks have a bid/ask spread on currencies.
What is Triangular Arbitrage?
When currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two currencies
Is there any risk with Triangular arbitrage?
No, since there is no uncertainty about the prices at which you will buy and sell the currencies.
What is the difference between triangular arbitrage, locational arbitrage, and Covered interest arbitrage?
In covered interest arbitrage the money is tied up compared to the locational, and triangular arbitrages where money is not.
Why would a MNC decide to Hedge part or all of its known payables transactions?
So that it is insulated from possible appreciation of the currency.
What does the economic exposure calculate?
The sensitivity of the firm’s cash flows to exchange rate movements.
What does transaction exposure calculate?
The sensitivity of the firm’s contractual transactions in foreign currencies to exchange rate movements.
What is the interbank market?
When one bank purchases foreign currencies that it has shortages of from other banks
What is dollarization?
The replacement of a foreign currency with U.S. dollars.
What does dollarization eliminate that a currency board does not?
It eliminates the local currency
What does the purchasing power parity(PPP) calculate?
It calculates the Inflation-exchange rate relationship
What is the fisher effect?
The theory that nominal interest rates are composed of a real interest rate and anticipated inflation.
What is appreciation?
The increase in the value of a currency.
What is the ask price?
The price that a trader of a foreign exchange is willing to sell a particular currency.
What is lagging?
Strategy used by a firm to stall payments, normally in response to exchange rate projections.
What is leading?
Strategy used by a firm to accelerate payments, normally in response to exchange rate expectations
What is a quota?
The maximum limit imposed by the government on goods allowed to be imported into a country.
What does a contingency graph measure?
The contingency graph measures the profit or loss per unit of a put or call option.
What is the J-curve effect?
The effect of a weaker dollar on the U.S trade balance in which initially deteriorates; it improves when U.S. and non-U.S. importers respond to the change in purchasing power that is caused by the weaker dollar.
 What is a currency board?
a board designed to maintain the value of the local currency with respect to some other specified currency
what does the cross-exchange rate reflect?
The cross-exchange rate reflects the amount of one foreign currency per unit of another foreign currency
What are American depository receipts (ADRs)?
Certificates representing bundles of stocks.
Product cycle theory suggests?
As a firm matures it will expand into foreign markets in response to foreign demand for its product.
To assess transaction exposure, an MNC needs to?
(1) estimate its net cash flows in each currency and (2) measure the potential impact of the currency exposure.
What is cross-hedging?
when a currency cannot be hedged, another currency that can be hedged and is  correlated may be hedged instead
What determines effectiveness of the cross-hedging?
The two currencies correlation the stronger positive correlation the more effective will be the cross-hedging strategy. 
Currency diversification?
Used to reduce an MNC's exposure to exchange rate movements by diversifying its business among numerous countries
When is currency diversification most effective?
most effective when the currencies are not highly positively correlated
real cost of hedging payables is measured by?
RCHp= cost of hedging payables - cost of payables if not hedged.
When is there a forecast bias?
When the forecasting errors are consistently positive or negative over time
Methods of forecasting exchange rate volatility?
(1) recent exchange rate volatility, (2) historical time series of volatilities, and (3) the implied standard deviation derived from currency option prices
The Smithsonian agreement called for?
A devaluation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.
What is devaluation?
A downward adjustment of the exchange rate by a central bank.
Free floating exchange rate system?
A monetary system where exchange rates can move due to market forces without intervention by country governments.
What are yankee stock offerings?
Offerings of stock by non-U.S. firms in the U.S. markets.
Floating rate notes?
Provision of some Eurobonds in which the coupon rate is adjusted over time according to prevailing market rates.
Managed float?
Exchange rate system in which currencies have no explicit boundaries, but central banks may intervene to influence exchange rate movements
A forward contract is? 		
An agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, exchange rate and date.
What are the two accounts that make up the balance of payments?  
The current account and the capital account.
How do you calculate the current account balance?
Current account = exports – imports
How can currency futures be used by corporations?
The currency futures can be used by a corporation to exchange one currency for another at a specified date in the future at a price that is fixed on the purchase date. It is also called foreign exchange future or FX future.
What is a currency future?
Currency future is a future contract in which specified currency can be bought or sell at pre-determined price and date.
The currency of US?
Common currency is one dollar five dollar, ten dollar, twenty dollar, fifty dollar, hundred dollar and of rarer occurrence are two dollar bill. 
What is the currency in the U.S.?
U.S. dollar
How much is a pound currency in US currency?
1 British pound = 1.5149 U.S. dollars
What is a currency call option?
It grants the rights to buy a specific currency at a designated price with in a specific period of time 
What does PPP stand for?
Purchasing Power Parity
Balance of trade is known as?
The difference between total exports and imports
What is a cross exchange rate?
It represents the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency.
Forward rate formula?
F = S (1 + p)
The fisher effect contains what two components?
Expected inflation rate and the real rate of interest
What is fundamental forecasting?
It is based on fundamental relationships between economic variables and exchange rates
What is arbitrage?
It is the action to capitalize on discrepancy in quotes prices
A foreign bond is?
A bond issued by a borrower foreign to country where the bond is placed
How does Technical Forecasting work?
It involves the use of historical exchange rate data to predict values
Explain the difference between sterilized and nonsterilized intervention?
Sterilized intervention is conducted to ensure no change in the money supply while nonsterilized intervention is conducted without concern about maintaining the same money supply.
What is one difference between currency strangles and currency straddles?
The call and put options of the underlying foreign currency have different exercise prices. 
The two-break even points for a long strangle position are located where?
Between the put option premium and above the call option premium
What are five methods used to invest internationally?
Direct Purchases of foreign stocks, Investment in MNC stocks, ADRs, ETFs, and IMFs 
What does the foreign exchange market allow one to do?
Allows for the exchange of one currency to another
What are the five characteristics of banks?
Competitiveness of quote, Special relationship, Speed of execution, Advice about current market conditions, and Forecasting advice
 What does devalue mean?
To reduce the value of its currency against other currencies 
What does revalue mean?
It increases the value of its currency against other currencies
What is an American depository receipt?
Certificates representing bundles of stock 
What are Eurobonds used for?
Bonds sold in countries other than the country of the currency denominating the bonds
A currency put option provides what?
The right to sell a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time 
What is a currency call option?
Provides the right to buy a specific currency at a specific price within a specific period of time 
Cross-Hedging is a common method of?
Reducing transaction exposure when the currency cannot be hedged
What does ROI stand for?
Return on Investment
What is a corporation?
A business created as a distinct legal entity composed of one or more individuals or entities
What does OCF stand for?
Operating Cash Flow
What are transaction costs?
Costs associated with buying and selling investments, including commissions, search costs, and taxes
What is the difference between debt and equity markets?
One trades loans and the other trades corporate stocks
What does going public mean?
The act of selling stock to the general public for the first time by a corporation or its principle stockholders.
What is an underwritten agreement?
 Agreement for the sale of securities in which the investment bank guarantees the sale by purchasing the securities from the issuer, thus agreeing to bear any risks involved in the transaction.
Who is considered “insiders”?
Officers, directors, major stockholders, or others who might have inside information on a company's operations.
General partnership means?
All partners share in gains or losses, all have unlimited liability for all partnership debts
What are the advantages to a corporation?
Limited liability for stockholders, Unlimited life for the business, and  Ownership can be easily transferred
What is a Multinational Corporation?
Multinational Corporations are firms that engage in international business.
What is an agency problem?
An agency problem exist when there is conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders.
Why do firms pursue international business?
There are three theories on why firms pursue international business which are the theory of comparative advantage, the imperfect markets theory, and the product cycle theory.
What is the theory of comparative advantage?
The theory of comparative advantage says that countries specialize in specific products and this allows firms to penetrate foreign markets.
What is the imperfect markets theory?
The imperfect markets theory says that factors of production are immobile and incentivizes firms to seek out foreign opportunities. 
What is the product cycle theory?
The product cycle theory says that when firms mature they may recognize opportunities in foreign markets.  
How do firms engage in international business?
They have several methods including international trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing operations, and establishing new foreign subsidiaries. 
What is the balance of payments?
The balance of payments is a summary of transactions between domestic and foreign residents for a specific country over a specific time period.
What is the current account?
The current account is a summary of the flow of funds between one specified country and another due to the purchase of goods and services. 
What is the capital account? 
The capital account is a summary of the flow of funds between two countries due to the sale of assets.
What do the current account and the financial account sum to?
The current and financial account always sum to zero. 
What are some possible reasons to enact trade frictions?
Reasons to enact trade friction include national security reasons, allowing firms to grow inside their home country without foreign investment, and to keep firms competitive against firms that do not have to follow the same government regulations.  
What happens to the current account when inflation increases?
When inflation increases the current account decreases.
What happens to the current account when national income increases?
When national income increases the current account decreases.
What happens to the current account when a nations currency increases?
When a nations currency increases the current account decreases.
What happens to the current account deficit when the current account decreases?
When the current account decreases the deficit increases.
What factors affect Direct Foreign Investment?
Factors that affect DFI include privatization, lower taxes, potential economic growth, and exchange rate.
What factors affect portfolio investment?
Factors that affect portfolio investment include tax rates on interest or dividends, interest rates, and exchange rates.  
What is the main difference between Direct Foreign Investment and portfolio investment?
The difference between DFI and portfolio investment is DFI is a long term investment in a country while portfolio is a short term investment.
Do countries prefer DFI or portfolio investment?
Countries prefer DFI over portfolio. 
What is the foreign exchange market?
The foreign exchange market is a market where one currency is exchanged for another. 
What is a foreign exchange dealer?
Foreign exchange dealers are intermediaries in the foreign exchange market by exchanging currencies desired by MNCs or individuals. 
What is the spot market?
The spot market is where transactions for foreign currency exchange happen immediately.
What is the spot rate?
The spot rate is the rate at which one currency is traded for another in the spot market.
What is a bid/ask spread?
The bid/ask spread represents the difference between the bank’s bid and the ask, or sell price, and is intended to cover the bank’s costs involved in accommodating requests to exchange currencies. 
What is a direct quote?
A direct quote is a quotation that represent the value of a foreign currency in dollars.
What is an indirect quote?
An indirect quote is a quotation that represent the number of units of a foreign currency per dollar.
What is a cross rate?
A cross rate is any quotation that does not involve the dollar. 
What is a forward contract?
A forward contract is an agreement between a dealer and an MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, the exchange rate, and the date that the transaction will occur. 
What is the forward rate?
The forward rate is the exchange rate specified within the forward contract.
What is a currency futures contract?
A currency futures contract specifies a standard volume of a currency to be exchanged on a specific date.
What is the future rate?
The future rate is the exchange rate at which someone can buy or sell a currency on a settlement date.
What is a Eurodollar?
A Eurodollar is a dollar denominated account in a country other than the U.S.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond sold in a country but not in that currency.
What is a Foreign Bond?
A Foreign Bond is a bond sold in a country with their currency.
What are protective covenants?
Protective covenants are rules written into a debt contract to make sure a debt holder has best chance of getting paid back. 
What is an example of a protective covenants?
An example of a protective covenants is when a firm cannot increase its dividend too much. 
What does it mean when a currency depreciates?
When a currency depreciates, its value goes down. 
What does it mean when a currency is devalued?
It means that the government pushed down their own currency.
What is needed to complete an arbitrage trade?
To complete an arbitrage the trade must be done in a way that has a probability of expected gain along with no probability of loss, and it does not cost any of your own funds.
What is the commonly accepted goal of an MNC?
Maximize Shareholder wealth
What are the comparative advantages that countries like the United States have compared to Jamaica?
The United States has technological advances, while Jamaica has cheaper labor
What are some examples of franchises?
McDonalds, Wendy’s, Subway, Pizza Hut
Acquisitions allow a firm to what?
Have full control over their foreign businesses and can quickly obtain a large portion of foreign market share.
What is a way that a firm can penetrate a foreign market?
Establishing new operations in foreign countries to produce and sell their goods
Foreign acquisitions and creating new foreign operations require a?
Large investment 
A MNC’s cost of capital is influenced by?
The return required by its investors.
Direct foreign investment represents what?
The investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that could be used to conduct business operations.
Canada, China, Mexico, and Japan are main exporters of the United States. What percentage are they responsible for in US imports?
50%
What are the three barriers that have limited international trading of stocks?
Transaction costs, information costs, and exchange rate risk
The Equilibrium exchange rate will change over time with correlation to?
As supply and demand schedules changes
What is Globex?
A computerized platform that matches buy and sell offers for each standardized contract.
What type of relationship do future contracts and spot rates have?
If one moves the other will move in accordance to the other
What do currency options provide?
The right to purchase or sell currencies at a specified price.
A strong home currency makes consumers of that country?
Buy goods from other countries
In reference to forward premiums across maturity markets. What does the yield curve represent?
The relationship between the annualized yield of risk-free debt and the time to maturity at a given point in time.
What is a limitation of Purchasing Power Parity
The results will vary with the base period used
What does the potential forecast error for a particular currency depend on?
The forecast horizon 
What are the three forms of exchange rate exposure?
Transaction, economic, translation
An MNC can create what, when trying to determine the cash received from hedging?
Contingency Graph
How does translation exposure occur?
When an MNC translates each subsidiary’s financial data to its home currency for consolidated financial statements.
International projects and diversification benefits a firm by reducing what?
Overall risk
The ideal DFI solves what problems?
Unemployment and lack of technology
What three methods are used to adjust the evaluation of risk?
Risk-adjusted discount rate, sensitivity analysis, simulation
What are the two specific factors that an MNC uses to estimate future cash flows
Target-specific, Country-specific 
What are the techniques to assess country risk?
Checklist approach, Delphi technique, Quantitative analysis, Inspection visits, and a combination of techniques
What is the cost of debt to a firm determined by?
The prevailing risk-free interest rate in the currency borrowed and the risk premium required by creditors.
As risk-free interest rates vary among countries what happens to the cost of equity? 
The cost of equity also varies
What does a currency swap do?
It allows firms to exchange currency at periodic intervals.
What is a plain vanilla swap?
A standard contract without any unusual contract additions.
When are open account transactions used?
When the buyer and seller have a great deal of trust with one another and previous experience with each other.
What are the three agencies that motivate international trade?
Export-Import Bank of the United States, Private Export Funding Corporation, Overseas Private Investment Corporation
If an interest rate parity exists the currency will exhibit?
A forward premium that offsets the differential between its interest rate and its home interest rate. 
What techniques are used to optimize cash flows?
Accelerating cash inflows, Minimizing currency conversion costs, Managing blocked funds, Managing inter-subsidiary cash transfers. 
What are the three complications that are associated with optimizing cash flows?
Company-related characteristics, Government restrictions, Characteristics of banking systems. 
What is the difference between forecasted and realized exchange rate for a given point of time?
The forecast error.
What techniques does an MNC use to hedge its payables?
Futures hedge, Forwards hedge, Money market hedge, Currency option hedge
The euro enables residents to partake in?
Cross-border trading and capital flows
What is needed to construct a currency straddle?
Selling both a call option and a put option for a specific currency
What are ‘Red Tape’ barriers in relation to DFIs
Procedural and documentation requirements
What is an arbitrage?
A zero-risk, zero-net investment strategy that still generates profit.
What is an agency problem?
 Conflicts of interest among stockholders, bondholders, and managers.
 What is the ask price?
The price at which a dealer will sell a security.
What does “at the money” mean?
The exercise price and asset price of an option are equal.
What is the bid price?
 The price at which a dealer is willing to purchase a security.
What does beta measure?
The systematic risk of a security.
Comparative advantage suggests an increase in?
Worldwide production
What is a bond?
 A security issued by a borrower that obligates he issuer to make specified payments to the holder over a specified period.
What type of investor is bullish?
 optimistic
 What type of investor is bearish?
 pessimistic 
What is a call option?
 The right to buy an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.
What is a callable bond?
A bond that the issuer may repurchase at a given price in some specified time period.
What is a collar option?
Brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.
What is collateral?
A specified asset pledged against possible default on a bond. 
What is convexity?
 The curvature of the price-yield relationship of a bond. 
What is a bond’s current yield?
The annual coupon payment divided by its price. 
 What are discount bonds?
Bonds that are selling below par value.
What is diversification?
Spreading a portfolio over many investments to avoid excessive exposure to any one source of risk.
What does the efficient market hypothesis predict?
That the prices of securities fully reflect all available information.
What is equity?
Ownership in a firm.
What is the exchange rate?
Price of a unit of one country’s currency in terms of another country’s currency.
What is the exercise price of a bond?
Price set for calling an asset or putting an asset.
 What is expected return?
The probability-weighted average of the possible outcomes.
What does it mean to hedge?
Protect a firm from exchange rate fluctuations.
 When two or more firms share responsibilities and earnings?
 Joint venture.
What is an indenture?
A document defining the contract between the bond issuer and the bondholder.
What is inflation?
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising.
What is insider trading?
Trading by officers, managers, etc. who hold private information allowing them to benefit from buying or selling the stock.
What is the intrinsic value of a company?
The present value of a firm’s expected future net cash flows discounted by the required rate of return.
What is hedging?
 Investing in an asset to reduce the overall risk of a portfolio.
 What is inflation?
The rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising.
What is the initial public offering for a company?
Stock that is issued to the public for the first time by a formerly privately owned company.
What is a tariff?
A tax imposed by a government on imported goods.
 What is a margin?
 It describes securities purchased with money borrowed from a broker.
Does a writer buy or sell an option?
Sell.
 What is the par value of a bond?
 The same amount as the face value.
What is preferred stock?
Shareholders have a fixed stream of dividends, and no voting rights.
What is a primary market?
Where new issues of securities that are offered to the public.
What are premium bonds?
Bonds that are selling above par.
What is a protective put?
Purchasing of stock combined with a put option that guarantees minimum proceeds equal to the put’s exercise price.
When was the World Bank established?
1944.
What is the premium of an option?
The purchase price of the option.
What is a covered call?
 Purchase of a share of stock with a simultaneous sale of a call on that stock.
What is a Eurodollar?
describes US Dollar deposits placed in Europe banks. 
 IMF refers to what agency?
 International Monetary Fund
Exchange of goods without currency?
Barter
What does appreciation mean?
Increase in the value of currency
What is a hedge ratio commonly known as?
Delta
What form of business do multinational Corporations engage in?
International Business 
What is the goal of the multinational corporation?
To maximize shareholder wealth 
What is a joint venture?
A venture or business owned and operated by two or more different firms. 
In a multinational firm value can be specified in the same manner as what other type of firm?
 Purely domestic firms
 What influences the cost of capital in a multinational firm?
Required rate of return
 What is a balance of payments?
 A summary of transactions between domestic and international firms. 
 If a country has an increasing inflation rate what will happen to its current accounts?
 They will decrease
 What are the most influential factors that effect international trade?
 Inflation, National income, policies and exchange rates
 Where are foreign stocks bought?
 On the foreign stock exchange
Are the tax effects of dividends and capital gains the same in every county?
 No, they vary among counties
 Forward rates usually vary what other kind of rate for currency?
 The spot rate
 Why do MNC’s use forward contracts?
To hedge their imports 
 Corporations with open positions in foreign currencies can use what kind of option to cover their position?
A call option
 Firms can use what kind of option to hedge possible acquisitions?
 A call option 
 What is a Currency put option?
 When the owner has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within a certain amount of time 
 What does ECB stand for? 
 European Central Bank  
 What three reasons do governments manage exchange rates?
To smooth exchange rate movements, implicit exchange rate boundaries and to respond to disturbances. 
 What is your gain from a locational arbitrage based on?
Amount of money used to capitalize and the size 
 What does the PPP theory do? 
 Attempts to quantify the inflation exchange rate relationship
How can you test the PPP theory?
Choose two countries and compare the differences in the inflation rates to the change in currency value. 
 What two components does the nominal interest rate contain according to the fisher theory?
  expected inflation rate and the real rate of interest 
 Operation of an ANC can be influenced by the changes in what?
 The exchange rates 
 What key factor does technical forecasting use?
 Historical exchange rate 
 Market based forecasting is based on what?
The spot rate and the forward rate
 What is cross hedging?
 A method of reducing transaction exposure when currency cannot be hedged
 What is the third way of reducing currency exposure?
  Currency Diversification 
 Why can’t a MNC portfolio be singled out as optimal?
 MNC vary in their willingness to accept risk 
 What three methods are used to adjust the evaluation risk?
 Risk- Adjusted discount rate, Sensitivity analysis and Simulation 
 The value of a real option is affected by what two factors?
 The probability the real option will be exercised and the NPV 
 If a U.S based MNC wants to acquire a foreign target it must consider what?
 How the future exchange rate movements may affect the targets local cash flows. 
 Some international cooperate controlled MNC’s involve what?
 Real options 
 what can determine the valuation of international divestiture?
 Comparing present value to the value of cash flows. 
 The cap M suggests that the required return of a stock is a function of what?
 Risk free rate of interest, market rate of return and the stocks beta 
 A MNC that increase the foreign sales reduces the stock what?
 Beta 
 What is a Bankers Acceptance?
 A time draft drawn on and accepted by a bank 
 The fisher effect on requires what to determine movement in exchange rates?
  Data on nominal risk free interest rates of the two countries 
 In the PPP theory interest rates are correlated to what?
 Inflation rates
What is the primary accepted goal of MNCs?
To maximize shareholder wealth
What are agency costs?
The costs of ensuring that managers maximize shareholder wealth
What are the three commonly accepted theories as to why firms begin to expand their business internationally?
Because of the theory of competitive advantage, the imperfect markets theory, and the product lifecycle theory
What doess IBRD stand for and what is its primary objective?
The IRBD is the International Bank for Reconstruction and development and its primary objective is to make loans to countries to enhance economic development
What are three factors that affect portfolio investment?
Tax rates on interest or dividents, interest rates, and exchange rates
What are the main components of the current account?
Payments for: merchandise, factor income, and transfers
What does a negative current account balance mean?
A negative current account balance means that a country spent more on trade, income, and transfer payments than it received
What are the main components of the financial account?
Payments for: direct foreign investment, portfolio investment, and other capital investment
What was the primary reason for imposing the Interest Equalization Act?
To discourage U.S. investors from investing in foreign assets
What is the main goal of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act?
To require firms whose stock is listed on the U.S. stock exchange to provide more complete financial disclosure
What is an exchange rate?
The rate at which one currency can be exchanged for another
What is a forward contract?
An agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specified amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on a specified date in the future
What is a contract specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date?
A currency futures contract
What do margin requirements do?
Minimize risk by covering fluctuations in the value of a futures contract
What does a premium on a call option represent?
The cost of having the right to buy the underlying currency at a specified price
What is another name for the seller of a currency call option?
A writer
What does the seller of a put option receive?
The premium paid by the buyer
What is a fixed exchange rate system?
Exchange rates are either held constant or allowed to fluctuate within a narrow range
What does devaluation refer to in terms of exchange rates?
A central bank's actions to devalue a currency in a fixed exchange rate system
What does revaluation refer to in terms of exchange rates?
An upward adjustment of the exchange rate by the central bank
What are the four primary categories of exchange rate systems?
Fixed, freely floating, managed float, and pegged
In what exchange rate system are exchange rate values determined by market forces without intervention by governments?
Freely floating
In what exchange rate system is the home currency's value pegged to one foreign currency or an index of currencies?
Pegged
What is dollarization?
The replacement of a foreign currency with U.S. dollars
Where is the European Central Bank based?
Frankfurt
What are the three main reasons that governments commonly manage exchange rates?
To smooth exchange rate movements, to establish implicit exchange rate boundaries, and to respond to temporary disturbances
What is it called when the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in money supply?
Nonsterilized intervention
What is triangular arbitrage?
When currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepncies in the cross exchange rate between two currencies
What is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering your exchange rate risk with a forward contract?
Covered interest arbitrage
What does IRP stand for?
Interest rate parity
What does the yield curve represent?
The relationship between the annualized yield of risk-free debt and the time to maturity at a given point in time
What does the PPP theory do?
Explains how relative inflation rates between two countries can influence an exchange rate as well as provide information that can be used to forecast exchange rates
Why doesn't PPP consistently occur?
Because of confounding effects and a lack of substitutes for some traded goods
What does the IFE explain?
Why exchange rates change over time due to interest rates
What are the four general groups of methods for forecasting exchange rates?
Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed
Which forecasting technique involves the use of historical exchange rate data to predict future values?
Technical forecasting
Which forecasting technique is based on relationships between economic variables and exchange rates?
Fundamental forecasting
What two factors is market-based forecasting based on?
The spot rate or the forward rate
Which method of forecasting involved a combination of forecasting techniques?
Mixed forecasting
What is the difference between the forecasted and realized exchange rates for a given point in time?
Forecast error
Why do small countries prefer Direct Foreign Investment?
This shows that the business is investing long-term
What is a multinational corporation?
A firm engaged in international business
What is the agency problem?
Conflicting goals between managers and shareholders
What are explanations to why firms pursue international business?
Comparative advantage, imperfect market conditions and product cycle
How do firms engage in international business?
International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions, establishing foreign subsidiaries
What is Direct Foreign Investment?
Any method used to increase international business requiring investment directly in foreign operations
Why is outsourcing typically criticized?
It shifts jobs to other countries causing workers to lose their jobs in the home country
What are factors that affect international trade?
Inflation, national income, government policies and exchange rate
What is the foreign exchange market?
The market allowing individuals and multinational corporations to exchange one currency for another
What does MNC stand for?
Multinational Corporation
What is the difference between spot market and spot rate?
Spot market is where foreign exchange transactions occur while the spot rate is the exchange rate that one currency is traded for another
What is the bid/ask spread?
Differential between bid/ask quote to cover costs of accommodating requests of exchange currencies
What is a direct quote?
Where a quotation is expressed in the number of U.S. Dollars per foreign currency
How is an indirec tquote reflecte?
Foreign currency per U.S. Dollar
Why would a multinational corporation decide to use a forward contract?
The MNC may want to lock in a particular exchange rate in order to obtain a currency at a future time
What is a forward market used for?
To trade forward contracts
What are advantages to freely floating exchange rate systems?
The country is protected from other countries' inflation and are insulated from unemployment problems in other countries
What are disadvantages of freely floating exchange rate systems?
A country experiencing high unemployment or economic problems will compound on problems when another country adopts this system
What is dollarization?
Replacement of foreign currency with U.S. Dollars
Why does the government intervene in the foreign exchange market?
To smooth exchange rate movement, establish implicit exchange rate boundaries and respond to temporary disturbances
How can the Fed force the dollar to depress?
By directly exchanging dollars held in reserves for other foreign currencies in the foreign exchange market
What is sterilized intervention?
Intervention by the Fed in the foreign exchange market while offsetting transaction in Treasury securities
What is non-sterilized intervention?
Intervention by the Fed in foreign exchange markets without adjusting for the change in money supply
What is the difference between non-sterilized and sterilized intervention?
Non-sterilized is where the money supply increases and decreases with intervention whereas sterilization does not change the money supply
What is the benefit to a weak home currency?
This can stimulate foreign demand for products causing an increase in U.S. exports and jobs
What is the benefit to a strong home currency?
This encourages consumers and corporations to buy goods in other countries causing increased foreign companies and domestic producers to refrain from price increases
What is technical forecasting?
Using historical exchange rate data to predict future values
What is a weak-form efficient foreign exchange market?
Foreign exchange market where historical and current exchangerate information is not useful for forecasting exchange rate movement
Whatis the assumption of the investor hedge argument?
Taht investors have full information on corporate exposure to the exchange rate
What is economic exposure?
Sensitivity to a firm's cash flows to the exchange rate movements
What does a multinational corporation's degree of translation depend on?
The proportion of business conducted by foreign subsidiaries locations of its foreign subsidiaries and accounting method used
What are techniques for a multinational corporation to hedge its payables?
Use of currency diversification, stakeholder diversification and maintain low exposure to exchange rate risk
What is a money market hedge?
Taking a money market position to cover a future payables position
What does a currency call option hedge do?
Gives owner the right to buy the specified amount of currency at a specified price in a given period of time
What is overhedging?
Hedgiing to increase the amount in a currency than the actual transaction amount
What is cross-hedging?
A common method of reducing transaction exposure when currency cannot be hedged
What is currency diversification?
Method of reducing transaction exposure by limiting potential effects of any single currency's movements on the value of a multinational corporation
What is a parallel loan?
An exchange of currencies between two parties with the promise to re-exchange at a specified rate on the future date
What do leading and lagging strategies involve?
Adjusting the timing of a payment request or disbursement to reflect expectations about future currency movements
What are alternative hedging techniques?
Leading and lagging, cross-hedging and currency diversification
Q: Explain the agency problem of MNCs.
A: The agency problem of MNCs is a conflict of interest that occurs between a company's stockholders and management of the company.
Q: Why might agency cost be larger for an MNC than a purely domestic firm?
A: Foreign subsidiary managers raised in different cultures may not follow uniform goals
Q: What factors cause some firms to become more internationalized than others?
A: The operating characteristics of the firm and the risk perception of international business will influence the degree to which a firm becomes internationalized.
Q: Offer your opinion on why the Internet may result in more international business.
A: The Internet may result in more international business because it makes international communication and transactions quicker and easier. Instead of having to travel and discuss business and make deals in person they can now skype and make transactions using the internet. 
Q: How would a relatively high home inflation rate affect the home countries current account, other things being equal?
A: A high inflation rate can increase imports and decrease exports, this would increase the current account deficit.
Q: What are some of the major objectives of the IMF?
A: The major IMF objectives are (1) promote cooperation among countries on international monetary issues, (2) promote stability in exchange rates, (3) provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances of international payments, (4) promote free mobility of capital funds across countries, and (5) promote free trade.
Q: Utah Bank's bid price for Canadian dollars is $.7938 and its ask price is $.81. What is the bid/ask percentage spread?
A: ($0.81-$0.7938)/$0.81= 2%
Q: Compute the bid/ask percentage spread for Mexican Peso retail transaction in which the ask rate is $.11 and the bid rate is $.10.
A: [($0.11 – $0.10)/$0.11] = .0909 or 9.1%
Q: Explain the difference between sterilized and non-sterilized intervention.
A: Sterilized intervention is used to ensure no change in the money supply while nonsterilized intervention is used without concern about maintaining the same money supply.
Q: Assume the spot rate of the British pound is $1.73. The expected spot rate one year from now is assumed to be $1.66. What percentage depreciation does this reflect?
A: The expected depreciation of 4.05% percent ($1.66 – $1.73)/$1.73 = –4.05% 
Q: Assume Poland’s currency (the zloty) is worth $0.17 and the Japanese yen is worth $0.008. What is the cross rate of the zloty with respect to yen? That is, how many yen equal a zloty?  
A: $0.17/$0.008 = 21.25 so 1 zloty = 21.25 yen
Q: With regard to Eurocredit loans, who are the borrowers?
A: Large corporations and some government agencies are the ones that commonly request Eurocredit loans.
Q: Assume that the U.S. inflation rate becomes high relative to Canadian inflation. Other things being equal, how should this affect the U.S. demand for Canadian dollars? 
A: The demand for Canadian dollars should increase. 
Q: What is the expected relationships between the relative real interest rates of two countries and the exchange rate of their currencies? 
A: The higher the real interest rate of one country compared to another, the stronger the home currency will be. 
Q: What factors affect the future movements in the value of the euro against the dollar? 
A: The euro’s value could change because of the balance of trade, which reflects more U.S. demand for European goods than the European demand for U.S. goods.
Q: Compare and contrast forward and futures contracts. 
A: Futures contracts are highly standardized and are traded on exchange whereas the terms of each forward contract can be privately negotiated and are traded over-the-counter. 
Q: How can currency futures be used by corporations? 
A: Corporations that desire to lock in a price at which they can sell a foreign currency would do so by selling currency futures.
Q: Compute the forward discount or premium for the Mexican peso whose 90-day forward rate is $0.102 and spot rate is $0.10.
A: ($0.098 - $0.10) / $0.10 × (360/90) =  –.02, or –2%, which reflects a 8% discount
Q: List the factors that affect currency put option premiums. 
A: The higher the existing spot rate relative to the strike price. The greater is the call option value the longer the period prior to the expiration date the greater is the call option value.
Q: Compare and contrast the fixed, freely floating, and managed float exchange rate systems. 
A: Under a fixed exchange rate system, the government attempts to maintain exchange rates within 1% of the initial set value. Under a freely floating system, government intervention would be non-existent. Under a managed float system, governments will allow exchange rates move according to market forces; however, they will intervene when they believe it is necessary.
Q: How can a central bank use indirect intervention to change the value of a currency?
A: Central banks can try and devalue their home currency compared to a foreign currency. They can do this by buying the foreign currency with their currency, the impact is that it will have is an upward pressure on the foreign currency. 
Q: Assume there is concern that the U.S. may experience a recession. How should the Federal Reserve influence the dollar to prevent a recession? 
A: The Fed could use a loose money policy to stimulate the economy, this could put an upward pressure on economic growth and inflation which could weaken the U.S. dollar. 
Q: What is the impact of a weak home currency on the home economy, other things constant? 
A: It would increase the country’s exports and decrease its imports which would lower unemployment. This could increase inflation since there is a decrease in foreign competition. 
Q: Explain the potential feedback effects of a currency’s changing value on inflation.
A: Having a weak home currency can cause inflation which typically reduces foreign competition in any given industry. Higher inflation can weaken the currency even more since it encourages customers to buy goods abroad. On the other hand a strong home currency can reduce inflation because it reduces the prices of foreign goods and makes home producers to have competitive prices
Q: Explain the concept of locational arbitrage and the scenario necessary for it to be plausible. 
A: A locational arbitrage can occur when the spot rate of a given currency varies among locations. The disparity in rates can occur since information is not always immediately available to all banks. Since this disparity does exist, locational arbitrage is possible. 
Q: Explain the concept of the triangular arbitrage and the scenario necessary for it to be plausible.
A: A triangular arbitrage is possible when the actual cross exchange rate between two currencies differs from what it should be. To determine appropriate cross rate take the given values of the two currencies and compare them to some other currency.
Q: Explain the concept of interest rate parity. 
A: Interest rate parity is a theory in which the differential between the interest rates of two countries remains equal to the differential calculated by using the forward exchange rate and the spot exchange rate techniques. It connects interest, spot exchange, and foreign exchange rates.
Q: Assume that the annual U.S. interest rate is currently 8 percent and Germanys annual interest rate is currently 9 percent. The Euros one-year forward rate currently exhibits a discount of 2 percent. Does interest rate parity exist?
A: No, because the discount is greater than the interest rate differential.
Q: Explain the purchasing power parity. 
A: This is a theory that states that exchange rates between currencies are in equilibrium when their purchasing power is the same in each of the two countries.
Q: Explain why PPP doesn’t hold. 
A: The reason PPP doesn’t always hold is because there are other factors that influence exchange rates other than inflation. 
Q: Japan has typically had lower inflation than the U.S. How would one expect this to affect the Japanese yen’s value?
A: Japan’s low inflation places an upward pressure on the yen’s value but other factors can offset this pressure sometimes. For example, Japan invests heavily in U.S. securities. This puts downward pressure on the yen. 
Q: Assume that the spot exchange rate of the British pound is $1.73. How will this spot rate adjust according to the PPP if the United Kingdom experiences an inflation rate of 7 percent while the United States experiences and inflation rate of 2 percent? 
A:  According to PPP, the exchange rate of the pound will depreciate by 4.7 percent according to PPP. This would make the spot rate adjust to $1.73 × [1 + (–.0467)] = $1.649
Q: Explain corporate motives for forecasting exchange rates. 
A: Future exchange rates will affect all critical characteristics of the firm such as costs and revenues. So they can use this to determine when they should do things that will benefit them most. 
Q: Explain the mixed technique for forecasting exchange rates.
A: Mixed forecasting is a combination of two or more techniques. The combinations can differ in terms of techniques and the weight of the importance assigned to each technique. 
Q: How should appreciation of a firm’s home currency generally affect its cash inflows?
A: Appreciation of a firm’s home currency would reduce inflows because the foreign demand for that firm’s goods would be reduced thus increasing foreign competition. 
Q: How should depreciation of a firm’s home currency generally affect its cash outflows?
A: Depreciation of a firm’s home currency would increase inflows because it would likely increase foreign demand for the firm’s goods and reduce foreign competition. 
Q: Why are the cash flows of a purely domestic firm exposed to exchange rate fluctuations?
A: If the firm competes with foreign firms that also sell in a given market, the consumers may switch to foreign products if the local currency strengthens.
Q: Explain the relationship between this chapter on hedging and the previous chapter of measuring exposure. 
A: The last chapter explained how to measure exposures which you need to do before a MNC decides whether to hedge its exposure. 
Q: Why should an MNC identify net exposure before hedging? 
A: An MNC can reduce the amount of cash flow that it needs to hedge when identifying net exposure first, this can reduce the transaction costs associated with hedging.
Q: If hedging is expected to be more costly than not hedging, why would a firm even consider hedging? 
A: Firms are willing to hedge because they prefer knowing what their future cash flows will be instead of the uncertainty that comes with and open position in a foreign currency.  
All relevant public and private information reflects on today's exchange rates.
Strong form efficeint
What is transaction exposure?
The sensivity of contractual transactions in foreign currencies to exchange rate movements.
What is the exposure of the MNC's consolidated financial statements to exchange rate fluctuations?
It is known as translation exposure.
What are the hedging techniques to hedge payables?
Future hedge, forward hedge, money market hedge, currency option hedge
Who serves as intermediaries in the foreign exchange market?
Foreign excange dealers.
What is often accepted as a medium of exchangeby merchants in many countries?
The U.S. dollar.
What are the costs of maintaining an inverntory of a particular currency?
Inventory costs.
What transactions are facilitaed within the foreign exchange markets?
Trade of financial flows.
What has become larger over time and can easily overwhelm trade flows?
Capital flows.
Who has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within specified period of time?
The owner of a currrecny put option.
What is the balance of payments?
Summary of transactions for a specified country over a specified period of time between domestic and foreign residents.
What happens when a country's currency weakens?
Their prices become more attractive to foreign customers, so foreign companies lower their prices to remain in competition with the firms in the country.
What is the interbank market?
It is a market that facilitates the exchange of currencies between banks.
What grants the right to purchase a specific currency at a designated price within a specific period of time?
A currency call option
What represents the increase in value of a currency allowed to change in response of market conditions?
Appreciation represents the increase in value of a currency.
Is a currency board effective.
A currency board is only effective if investors believe it will last. 
How many popular forms of PPP are there and what are they?
There are 2 forms of PPP. Absolute Form of PPP, and Relative Form of PPP.
Why does purchasing power parity not consistently occur?
Due to the lack of substitutes for some traded goods, and confounding effects.
What theory uses interest rates rather than inflation rates?
International Fisher Effect (IFE) is used to explain why exchange rates change over time, interest rates are highly correlated with inflation.
What suggests that the nominal interst rate contains two components; expected inflation rate, and real rate of interest.
The fisher effect
Q: What is the agency problem?
A: The conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders.
Q: When a country specializes in some products, it may not produce other products, so trading is essential is known as what?
A: Comparative advantage.
Q: What are the imperfect market conditions?
A: Conditions where factors of production are somewhat immobile.
Q: According to what theory are firms becoming established in the home market for at least one more supplier of the product?
A: Product cycle theory.
Q: What are the six most common methods to conduct international business?
A: International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing operations, and establishing new foreign subsidiaries. 
Q: What is franchising?
A: Franchising obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy, support assistance, and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
Q: What is licensing?
A: Licensing obligates a firm to provide its technology in exchange for fees or some other specified benefits. 
Q: What is a direct foreign investment (DFI)?
A: Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investment in foreign operations normally.
Q: What does direct foreign investment represent?
A: Direct foreign investment represents the investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Q: What does portfolio investment represent?
A: Portfolio investment represents transactions involving long-term financial assets between countries that do not affect the transfer of control. 
Q: What are the most influential factors that affect a country’s economy?
A: The most influential factors are inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates. 


Q: What occurs when a country’s inflation rate increases?
A: If a country’s inflation rate increases relative to the countries with which it trades, its current account will be expected to decrease, other things being equal. 
Q: What occurs if a country’s income level increases?
A: If a country’s income level increases by a higher percentage than those of other countries, its current account is expected to decrease, other things being equal.
Q: What are five factors that affect DFI?
A: Changes in restrictions, privatization, potential economic growth, tax rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the factors that affect international portfolio investment?
A: Tax rates on interest or dividends, interest rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the major objectives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)?
A: (1) promote cooperation among countries on international monetary issues, (2) promote stability in exchange rates, (3) provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances of international payments, (4) promote free mobility of capital funds across countries, and (5) promote free trade. 
Q: What does IMF stand for?
A: International Monetary Fund.
Q: What does the compensatory financing facility do?
A: The CFF attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on country economies. 
Q: What was the World Trade Organization established for?
A: The WTO was established to provide a forum for multilateral trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes related to the GATT accord. 
Q: What does the foreign exchange market allow?
A: The foreign exchange market allows for the exchange of one currency for another. 
Q: What is a forward contact?
A: A forward contact is an agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specified amount of a currency at a specified amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on a specified date in the future. 
Q: The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate at a given point in times is measured by:
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: What is the non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) used for?
A: A non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) is frequently used for currencies in emerging markets.
Q: What are currency futures contracts?
A: Currency futures contracts are contracts specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date. 
Q: What does a currency call option grant the right to?
A: A currency call option grants the right to buy a specific currency at a designated price within a specific period of time. 
Q: What is the exercise price or strike price?
A: The price at which the owner is allowed to buy a currency. 
Q: What is a writer (seller) obligated to do?
A: A writer of call option is obligated to sell a specified currency at a specified price up to a specified expiration date. 
Q: What does the owner of a currency put option have the right to do?
A: The owner of currency put option has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within a specified period of time. 
Q: How can a currency option be structured?
A: A currency option can be structured with a conditional premium. 
Q: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are what?
A: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are either held constant or allowed to fluctuate only within very narrow boundaries. 
Q: What is arbitrage?
A: Arbitrage can be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit. 
Q: What is a locational arbitrage?
A: The process of buying a currency at the location where it is priced cheap and immediately selling it at another location where it is priced higher. 
Q: What do cross exchange rates represent?
A: Cross exchange rates represent the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency. 
Q: What is it called when currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two countries?
A: Triangular arbitrage. 
Q: What is the covered interest arbitrage?
A: Covered interest arbitrage is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering you exchange rate risk with a forward contract. 
Q: Once market forces cause interest rates and exchange rates to adjust such that covered interest arbitrage is no longer feasible, there is an equilibrium state referred to as?
A: Interest rate parity (IRP).
Q: What is the forward rate written as?
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to do what?
A: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to quantify the inflation-exchange rate relationship.
Q: What is the absolute form of PPP based on?
A: The absolute form of PPP is based on the notion that without international barriers, consumers shift their demand to wherever prices are lower.
Q: What does the relative form of PPP account for?
A: The relative form of PPP accounts for the possibility of market imperfections such as transportation costs, tariffs, and quotas. 
Q: What is the agency problem?
A: The conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and shareholders.
Q: When a country specializes in some products, it may not produce other products, so trading is essential is known as what?
A: Comparative advantage.
Q: What are the imperfect market conditions?
A: Conditions where factors of production are somewhat immobile.
Q: According to what theory are firms becoming established in the home market for at least one more supplier of the product?
A: Product cycle theory.
Q: What are the six most common methods to conduct international business?
A: International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, acquisitions of existing operations, and establishing new foreign subsidiaries. 
Q: What is franchising?
A: Franchising obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy, support assistance, and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
Q: What is licensing?
A: Licensing obligates a firm to provide its technology in exchange for fees or some other specified benefits. 
Q: What is a direct foreign investment (DFI)?
A: Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investment in foreign operations normally.
Q: What does direct foreign investment represent?
A: Direct foreign investment represents the investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Q: What does portfolio investment represent?
A: Portfolio investment represents transactions involving long-term financial assets between countries that do not affect the transfer of control. 
Q: What are the most influential factors that affect a country’s economy?
A: The most influential factors are inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates. 


Q: What occurs when a country’s inflation rate increases?
A: If a country’s inflation rate increases relative to the countries with which it trades, its current account will be expected to decrease, other things being equal. 
Q: What occurs if a country’s income level increases?
A: If a country’s income level increases by a higher percentage than those of other countries, its current account is expected to decrease, other things being equal.
Q: What are five factors that affect DFI?
A: Changes in restrictions, privatization, potential economic growth, tax rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the factors that affect international portfolio investment?
A: Tax rates on interest or dividends, interest rates, and exchange rates. 
Q: What are the major objectives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)?
A: (1) promote cooperation among countries on international monetary issues, (2) promote stability in exchange rates, (3) provide temporary funds to member countries attempting to correct imbalances of international payments, (4) promote free mobility of capital funds across countries, and (5) promote free trade. 
Q: What does IMF stand for?
A: International Monetary Fund.
Q: What does the compensatory financing facility do?
A: The CFF attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on country economies. 
Q: What was the World Trade Organization established for?
A: The WTO was established to provide a forum for multilateral trade negotiations and to settle trade disputes related to the GATT accord. 
Q: What does the foreign exchange market allow?
A: The foreign exchange market allows for the exchange of one currency for another. 
Q: What is a forward contact?
A: A forward contact is an agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specified amount of a currency at a specified amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on a specified date in the future. 
Q: The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate at a given point in times is measured by:
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: What is the non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) used for?
A: A non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) is frequently used for currencies in emerging markets.
Q: What are currency futures contracts?
A: Currency futures contracts are contracts specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date. 
Q: What does a currency call option grant the right to?
A: A currency call option grants the right to buy a specific currency at a designated price within a specific period of time. 
Q: What is the exercise price or strike price?
A: The price at which the owner is allowed to buy a currency. 
Q: What is a writer (seller) obligated to do?
A: A writer of call option is obligated to sell a specified currency at a specified price up to a specified expiration date. 
Q: What does the owner of a currency put option have the right to do?
A: The owner of currency put option has the right to sell a currency at a specified price within a specified period of time. 
Q: How can a currency option be structured?
A: A currency option can be structured with a conditional premium. 
Q: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are what?
A: In a fixed exchange rate system, exchange rates are either held constant or allowed to fluctuate only within very narrow boundaries. 
Q: What is arbitrage?
A: Arbitrage can be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit. 
Q: What is a locational arbitrage?
A: The process of buying a currency at the location where it is priced cheap and immediately selling it at another location where it is priced higher. 
Q: What do cross exchange rates represent?
A: Cross exchange rates represent the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency. 
Q: What is it called when currency transactions are conducted in the spot market to capitalize on a discrepancy in the cross exchange rate between two countries?
A: Triangular arbitrage. 
Q: What is the covered interest arbitrage?
A: Covered interest arbitrage is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering you exchange rate risk with a forward contract. 
Q: Once market forces cause interest rates and exchange rates to adjust such that covered interest arbitrage is no longer feasible, there is an equilibrium state referred to as?
A: Interest rate parity (IRP).
Q: What is the forward rate written as?
A: F=S(1+p)
Q: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to do what?
A: The purchasing power parity (PPP) theory attempts to quantify the inflation-exchange rate relationship.
Q: What is the absolute form of PPP based on?
A: The absolute form of PPP is based on the notion that without international barriers, consumers shift their demand to wherever prices are lower.
Q: What does the relative form of PPP account for?
A: The relative form of PPP accounts for the possibility of market imperfections such as transportation costs, tariffs, and quotas. 
What is the maximum limit that can be imported?
A quota is the maximum that can be imported.
How is a country’s currency measured in relation to other currencies?
A countries currency is measured through exchange rates.
What is price elasticity?
Price elasticity is the sensitivity to price changes.
What was the structured international monetary policy that was established by the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference?
The International Monetary Fund was a result of the conference
What is compensatory financing facility (CFF)?
The CFF is a key duty of the IMF in which it attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on country economies. 
What is a quotation that represents the value of a foreign currency in dollars? 
A direct quote.
What is a quotation that represent the number of units of a foreign currency per dollar?
An indirect quote.
What is the loan rate that floats in accordance with the movement of some market interest rate?
London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR).
What is a freely floating exchange rate system?
When exchange rates values are determined by market forces without intervention by governments. 
What is the job of the European Central Bank (ECB)?
It is responsible for setting monetary policy for all participating European countries.
What is nonsterilized intervention?
When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in the money supply. 
What are cross exchange rates?
Cross exchange rates represent the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency. 
What is the process of capitalizing on the interest rate differential between two countries while covering your exchange rate risk with a forward contract?
Covered interest arbitrage. 
What is the international fisher effect (IFE)?
The IFE uses interest rate rather than inflation rate differentials to explain why exchange rates change over time. 
What is the method of mixed forecasting?
Mixed forecasting is using a combination of forecasting techniques because no single one has been found to be consistent. 
What does it mean for a foreign exchange market to be strong-form efficient?
If a foreign exchange market is strong-form efficient, all relevant public and private information is already reflected in today’s exchange rates. 
What is economic exposure?
Economic exposure is the sensitivity of a firm’s cash flows to exchange rate movements.
What is a subset of economic exposure?
Transaction exposure is a subset of economic exposure.
What is translation exposure?
Translation exposure is the exposure of an MNC’s consolidated financial statements to exchange rate fluctuations.
What does a money market hedge position look like?
A money market hedge on payables involves taking a money market position to cover a future payables position. 
How is the real cost of hedging payables calculated?
The real cost of hedging payables is calculated as cost of hedging payables minus cost of payables if not hedged. 
What does the real cost of hedging payable measure?
An MNC can evaluate hedging decisions that they made in the past.
What is overhedging?
Overhedging is hedging a larger amount in a currency than the actual transaction amount.
What is a solution to overhedging?
A solution to avoid overhedging is to hedge only the minimum known amount in the future contract.
What does currency diversification do?
Currency diversification can limit the potential effect of any single currency’s movements on the value of the MNC.
What is cross hedging?
Cross hedging is a common method of reducing transaction exposure when the currency cannot be hedged. 
How do you assess economic exposure?
The percentage change in a firm’s cash flow is compared to the percentage change in the Euro. 
What are typical motives for direct foreign investment?
Typical motives include attracting new sources of demand, enter profitable markets, exploit monopolistic advantages, and diversify internationally.
What are some cost related motives?
Some typical motives to try to reduce costs are economies of scale, foreign factors of production, foreign raw materials, and react to exchange rate movements.
What is economies of scale?
Economies of scale is lowering the average cost per unit as a result of increased production. 
What is simulation used for?
Generation of profitability distribution for NPV based on a range of possible values for one or more input variables. 
What is dollarization?
Dollarization is the replacement of a foreign currency with US dollars.
What does a contingency graph show?
A contingency graph measures the profit or loss per unit under certain conditions.
What is a forward contract?
A forward contract is an agreement between a corporation and a financial institution to exchange a specific amount of a currency at a specific exchange rate on a specific date in the future.
What is the specific exchange rate in the terms of a forward contract?
The forward rate.
How is arbitrage used?
Arbitrage is used by some investors to earn higher returns than would be possible domestically without taking on additional risk.
When is a non-deliverable forward contract (NDF) used?
A NDF contract is frequently used for currencies in emerging markets.
What is a currency futures contracts?
A contract specifying a standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanges on a specific settlement date.
What is a margin requirement used for?
To cover fluctuations in the value of a contract.
What is an equilibrium exchange rate?
An exchange rate in which demand for a currency is equal to the supply of a currency for sale.
q:What is an arbitrage
a:Action to capitalize on a discrepancy in quoted prices
q:What is the asked price
a:The price at which a trader of foreign exchange is willing to sell a particular currency
q:When is a counterpurchase
a:Exchange of goods between two parties under two distinct contracts expressed in monetary terms
q:What is a countertrade
a:Sale of goods to one country that is linked to the purchase or exchange of goods from that same country
q:What is cross exchange rate
a:Exchange rate between currency A and currency B, given the values of currencies A and B with respect to a third currency
q:What is coss-hedging
a:Hedging an open position in one currency with a hedge on another currency that is highly correlated with the first currency
q:What is DFI
a:Investment in real assets in foreign countries
q:What is a direct quotation
a:Exchange rate quotations representing the value measured by number of dollars per unit
q:What is dumping
a:Selling products overseas at unfairly low prices
q:What is a foward rate
a:rate at which a bank is willing to exchange one currency for another at some specified date in the future
q:What is an indirect quotation
a:Exchange rate quotations representing the value measured by number of units per dollar
q:What is the interest rate parity
a:Theory specifiying that the forward premium is equal to the interest rate differential between the two currencies of concern
q:What is an interest rate swap
a:Agreement to swap interest payments, fixed interest rate exchanged for floating interest rate
q:What is nonsterilized intervention
a:Intervention in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in money supply
q:What is the real cost of hedging
a:Additional cost of hedging when compared to not hedging
q:What is semistrong-form efficient
a:All relevant public information is already reflected in prevailing spot exchange rates
q:What is the exercise/strike price
a:Price set for buying an asset or selling an asset
q:What is a spot rate
a:Current exchange rate of currency
q:What is a futures price
a:The price at which a futures trader commits to make or take delivery of the underlying asset
q:What is strong-form efficient
a:All relevant public an private information is already reflected in the prevailing spot exchange rates
q:Why do investors hedge
a:To reduce the overall risk of a portfolio
q:What is weak-form efficient
a:Implying that all historical and current exchange rate information is already reflected in prevailing spot exchange rates
q:What are the international money markets composed of
a:Several large banks that accept deposits and provide short term loans in various currencies.
q:Who Uses the international money markets
a:mainly the government and large corporations
q:How are exchange rate movements measured
a:Commonly by the percent change in their values over a specified period, such as a month or a year
q:What does LIBOR stand for
a: London Interbank Offered Rate
q:What are the factors that can influence exchange rate movement
a:Inflation rates, interest rates, and income levels as well as government controls
q:When does one buy a currency futres contract
a:When the speculator expects the currency to appreciate
q:What are the classifications for the exchange rate systems
a:fixed rate, freely floating, managed float, and pegged
q:What happens when the government sells a currency in the foreign exchange market
a:Puts downward pressure on the currency's equilibrium value
q:What are commmon forecasting techniques
a:Technical, fundamental, market based, and mixed
q:What is transaction exposure
a:Exposure of an MNC's contractual transactions to exchange rate movements
q:What are two techniques to hedge longterm transaction exposure
a:Long term forward contract and parallel loan
q:What is a parallel loan
a:Involves the exchange of currencies between tow parties, with promise to reexchange currencies at a specified exchange rate on a future date
q:What the techniques to optimize cash flows
a:Accelerate cash inflows, minimize currency conversion costs, managing blocked funds, implementing intersubsidiary cash transfers
q:What makes up a straddle
a:Buy a call and buy put
q:Why is a fixed exchange rate adventagious
a:Reduces risk by having a constant exchange rate
q:How is the premium calculated
a:The difference between the forward rate and the spot rate at a given point in time is measured by the premium
q:What is a difference between a forward and future
a:Forwards are not traded on an exchange and futures are
q:How do MNC's use forward contracts
a:To hedge imports, locks in a rate which they can otain a currency needed to purchase imports
Q: How do you value one countries currency to another countries?
A: Through exchange rates. 
Q: Why is that if you weaken your currency you will not always fix your balance of trade.
A: A country could lowers there price of the good
Q: What does the foreign exchange market do?
A: Allow for the exchange of one currency to another. 
Q: What is the spot exchange rate?
A: The rate at which one currency could be converted into another currency. 
Q: How long did the foreign exchange market use the gold standard?
A: From 1876-1913
Q: How do you calculate the bid ask spread?
A: (ask rate – Bid rate)/ Ask rate
Q: What are order costs.
A: The costs associated with processing orders and the costs of recording the transactions
Q: What are inventory costs. 
A: The costs of holding the inventory in the warehouse for a period of time.
Q: What is a forward contract. 
A: The agreement for a foreign exchange dealer and a MNC that specifies currency to be exchanged
Q: What are Eurobonds
A:  Bonds that are sold in countries other than the country of the currency denominating the bonds
Q: How do you calculate the real interest rate
A: Real interest rate= nominal interest rate – inflation rate 
Q: What is a currency call option?
A: It grants the right to buy a specific currency at a specified price during a specified time
Q: What is a currency put option?
A: It grants the right to sell a specific currency at a specified price during a specified time
Q: What is the price price in which the owner of a call option can buy it at?
A: Exercise price or strike price. 
Q: What is a good option for dealing with volatile currencies?
A: Creating a straddle. 
Q: What is the agency problem?
A: This is the conflict of goals between a firm’s managers and its shareholders.
Q: What is the Bid Price?
A: The price in which someone is willing to pay for a certain security. 
Q: What is the ask Price? 
A: The price someone is willing to sell a security. 
Q: How does firms conduct international business
A: International trade, licensing, franchising, joint ventures.
Q: What is licensing?
A: It obligates a frim to provide its technology in exchange for a certain fee.
Q: What is franchising?
A: It obligates a firm to provide a specialized sale or service strategy in exchange for a periodic fee. 
Q: What is a direct foreign investment?
A: Business that method of increasing international business with a direct investment. 
Q: What is the balance of payments?
A: A summary of transactions between domestic and foreign residents of a country.
Q: What is the current account?
A: A summary of cash between one country and all other countries
Q: What is the capital account?
A: A summary of cash from a sale of assets between one country and all other countries.
Q: What is a portfolio investment?
A: Portfolio investment represents transactions involving long term financial assets between countries
Q: What is dumping?
A: Exporting products that were produced with the help of government.
Q: What is the goal of a firm?
A: Increase shareholder wealth.
Q: What is outsourcing?
A: Outsourcing is when a frim hires foreign labor or a foreign supplier.
Q: What factors affect international trade flow?
A: Inflation, National income, government policies, and Exchange rates. 
Q: What is a tariff?
A: A tax on imported goods.
Q: What is a quota?
A: A maximum limit of goods that can be imported. 
Q: What is the Compensatory Financing facility?
A: It attempts to reduce the impact of export instability on a country’s economy.
Q: When was the world bank established?
A: 1944
Q: What was the purpose of the world bank
A: Its objective to make loans to countries to enhance economic development
Q: What does it mean when a bond is selling for Par value?
A: It is selling for the face value.
Q: What market is used for foreign exchange rates?
A: Spot market. 
Q:  What is the American Depository receipts?
A: It is used for non-us firms to obtain equity financing.
Q: What is a foreign bond?
A: A bond issued by a borrower from a foreign country. 
Q: What is a parallel bond?
A: A bond that is issued from a variety of countries. 
Q: What does MNC stand for?
a.	Multinational Corporations
Q: Explain the agency problem of MNCs.
a.	The agency problem of MNCs is a conflict of interest that occurs between a company's stockholders and management of the company
Q: What does IDA stand for?
a.	International Development Association
Q: What does OECD stand for?
a.	Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
Q: What does BIS stand for?
a.	Bank for International Settlements
Q: What is Franchising?
a.	It obligates a firm to provide a specialized sale or service strategy, support assistance, and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
Q: What is a Joint Venture?
a.	A venture that is jointly owned and operated by two or more firms.
Q: What is the Domestic Model Formula used to find?
a.	It is used to find value of a purely domestic firm.
Q: What factors cause some firms to become more internationalized than others?
a.	International trade
b.	Licensing
c.	Franchising
d.	Joint Venture
Q: What are the main components of the current account for payments?
a.	Merchandise and Services
b.	Factor Income
c.	Transfers
Q: What does GATT stand for?
a.	General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
Q: What does NAFTA stand for?
a.	North American Free Trade Agreement
Q: Definition of Dumping?
a.	When exporting of products that were produced with the help of government subsidies.
Q: What are the most influential factors of international trade?
a.	Inflation
b.	National income
c.	Government policies
d.	Exchange Rate
Q: What does CFF stand for?
a.	Compensatory Financing Facility
Q: What does SDR stand for?
a.	Special Drawing Rights
Q: What does IFC stand for?
a.	International Financial Corporation
Q: What does WTO stand for?
a.	World Trade Organization
Q: What does MIGA stand for?
a.	Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Q: What does IBRD stand for?
a.	International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Q: What is the Bretton Woods Agreement?
a.	An agreement called for fixed exchange rates between currencies.
Q: How can governments of foreign countries can influence the equilibrium exchange rate?
a.	Imposing foreign exchange barriers
b.	Foreign trade barriers
c.	Intervening in the foreign exchange markets
d.	Affecting marco variables such as inflation
Q: What does NDF stand for?
a.	Non-derivable forward contract
Q: What is another term for a Seller?
a.	Writer
Q: What does ERM stand for?
a.	Exchange Rate Mechanism
Q: Three reasons the US has Central Banks
a.	To smooth exchange rate movement
b.	Establish implicit exchange rate boundries
c.	Respond to temporary disturbances
Q: Definition of Nonsterilized intervention
a.	When the Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for the change in the money supply.
Q: Definition of Sterilized intervention
a.	The Fed intervenes in the foreign exchange market and simultaneously engages in offsetting transractions.
Q: Definition of Arbitrage
a.	Capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit
Q: Explain Triangular Arbitrage
a.	Represents the relationship between two currencies that are different from one’s base currency
Q: What does IRP stand for?
a.	Interest Rate Parity
Q: What is the PPP theory?
a.	This theory attempts to quantify the inflation exchange rate relationship
Q: What does the fisher effect suggest?
a.	Expected inflation rates
b.	Real rate of interest.
Q: What is fundamental forecasting?
a.	Fundamental forecasting is based on fundamental relationships between economic variables and exchange rate.
Q: What is market-based forecasting based on?
a.	Spot rate
b.	Forward rate
Q: Formula for real cost of hedging payables
a.	RCH=Cost of Hedging payables- cost of payables not hedged
Q: Alternative Hedging Technique
a.	Leading and lagging
b.	Cross-hedging
c.	Currency diversification
Q: The key components of the financial account are payments for
a.	Direct foreign investment
b.	Portfolio investment
c.	Other capital investment
Q: What is the J-curve effect?
a.	When the US balance of trade improves and the illustration on a graph looks like a J
Q: Define Privatization
a.	It allows for greater international business as foreign firms can acquire operations sold by national government.
