What is corporate finance?
To invest in assets and receive an equal amount of raised cash in return.
What is value creation?
Selling your investments to generate a cash return.
What are fixed assets?
Assets that will last a long time; can be tangible or intangible. 
What are current assets?
Assets that will not last a long time; usually inventory that is sold quickly.
What is debt?
Pieces of paper that a firm will issue as a loan agreement.
What are equity shares?
Stock certificates that a firm will sell for financing.
What is a current liability?
Short term debt.
What is capital structure? 
Proportion of financing from current and long-term debt and equity.
What is net working capital?
Current assets minus current liabilities.
What is a sole proprietorship?
A business owned by one person.
What is a partnership?
When two or more people get together to form a business.
What is a general partnership?
Both partners are liable for all debt and share all profit.
What is a limited partnership?
Limits the liability based on the cash provided by each partner.
What is a corporation?
A distinct legal entity. 
What is an LLC?
Hybrid of a partnership and a corporation.
What is the goal of financial management?
To maximize the current value per share of the existing stock.
What is an agency problem?
The possibility of conflict between the agent and the principle.
What are agency costs?
The costs of conflict of interest between management and stockholders.
Who is a stakeholder?
Someone who has a claim on the cash flows of the firm.
What is the balance sheet?
A snapshot of a firm’s accounting value.
What is the accounting equation of the balance sheet?
Assets = Liabilities + Stockholders’ Equity
What is liquidity?
The ease and quickness of converting assets to cash.
What is stockholders’ equity?
Assets – Liabilities 
What is book value?
The accounting value of a firm’s assets.
What is market value?
The price buyers and sellers would agree on.
What is the income statement?
Measures performance over a specific period of time.
What is the accounting equation of income?
Revenue – Expenses = Income
What does EBIT stand for?
Earnings before interest and taxes.
What is depreciation?
The accountant’s estimate of the depletion of equipment from production.
How is the average tax rate calculated?
Your tax bill divided by your taxable income.
What is the marginal tax rate?
Tax percent you would pay if you earned one more dollar.
What is net working capital?
Current assets – Current liabilities
What is the value of the firm in finance?
Its ability to generate financial cash flow.
What is capital spending?
Ending net fixed assets – Beginning net fixed assets + Depreciation
What is cash flow paid to creditors?
Interest paid – Net new borrowing
What is cash flow to stockholders?
Dividends paid – Net new equity raised
What does free cash flow refer to?
Cash that the firm is free to distribute to creditors and stockholders.
What are common-size statements?
One common way to standardize financial statements.
What are financial ratios?
A way to compare and investigate the relationship between financial information.
What is the current ratio?
Current assets divided by Current liabilities.
What is the quick ratio?
Current assets minus Inventory, divided by Current liabilities.
What is the cash ratio?
Cash divided by Current liabilities.
What is the total debt ratio?
Total assets minus Total equity, divided by Total assets.
What is the debt-equity ratio?
Total debt divided by Total equity.
What is the equity multiplier ratio?
Total assets divided by Total equity.
What is the times interest earned ratio?
EBIT divided by Interest.
What is total asset turnover?
Sales divided by Total assets.
What is profit margin?
Net income divided by Sales.
What is EBITDA?
A measure of before-tax operating cash flow.
What is return on assets (ROA)?
Net income divided by Total assets.
What is return on equity (ROE)?
Net income divided by Total equity.
What is earnings per share (EPS)?
Net income divided by Shares outstanding.
What is the price-earnings (PE) ratio?
Price per share divided by Earnings per share.
What is the Market-to-book ratio?
Market value per share divided by Book value per share.
What is the dividend payout ratio?
Cash dividends divided by Net income.
What is the plowback ratio?
Addition to retained earnings divided by Net income.
What is the internal growth rate?
The rate the firm can maintain with internal financing only.
What is the sustainable growth rate?
The maximum rate of growth a firm can maintain without increasing financial leverage.
What is future value?
The value of a sum after investing over one or more periods.
What is present value?
The money you have today.
What is net present value of investment?
Cost of land today + present value of next year’s sales price.
What is compounding?
Continuing to lend money in the financial market.
What is compound interest?
When each interest payment is reinvested.
What is discounting?
Calculating the present value of a future cash flow.
What is the present value factor?
The factor used to calculate the present value of a future cash flow.
What is the stated annual interest rate?
The annual interest rate without consideration of compounding.
What is continuous compounding?
To compound every infinitesimal instant.
What is perpetuity?
A constant stream of cash flows without end.
What is an annuity?
A level stream of regular payments that lasts for a fixed number of periods.
What is growing annuity?
A finite number of growing cash flows.
What is a fixed asset?  
Assets that will last a long time, such as buildings.
What is an example of a tangible asset? 
Machinery and equipment
What is an example of an intangible asset? 
Patents and trademarks
What is a current asset? 
Assets with short lives, such as inventory.
What is a sole proprietorship? 
A business owned by one person
What is a partnership? 
Two or more people who own a business.
What is a general partnership?
All partners agree to provide some fraction of the work and cash and to share the profits and losses.
What is a limited partnership?
This partnership permits the liability of some of the partners to be limited to the amount of cash each has contributed to the partnership.
What is a balance sheet? 
A snapshot of a firm’s accounting value the accountant uses for a particular date, as though the firm stood momentarily still.
What is liquidity? 
This refers to the ease and quickness with which assets can be converted to cash.
What is accounts receivable? 
These are amounts not yet collected from customers for goods or services sold to them.
What is Inventory? 
Inventory is comprised of raw materials to be used in products, work in process, and finished goods.
What are liabilities?
Obligations of the firm that require a payout of cash within a stipulated period.
What is a short run period?
It is the period in which certain equipment, resources, and commitments of the firm are fixed.  
What is your average tax rate?  
Your tax bill divided by your taxable income.
What is net working capital? 
Current assets minus current liabilities
How do you calculate capital spending?
Ending net fixed assets – beginning net fixed assets
What is operating cash flow?
Earnings before interest plus depreciation minus taxes, which measures the cash generated from operations not counting capital spending or working capital requirements.
How do you compute the current ratio? 
Current assets/current liabilities
How do you compute the quick ratio?
Current assets-inventory / current liabilities
How do you compute the cash ratio? 
Cash/current liabilities
How do you compute the total debt ratio? 
Total assets – total equity / total assets.
How do you compute times interest earned ratio? 
EBIT / Interest
How do you compute the inventory turnover? 
Cost of Goods Sold / Inventory
How do you compute the receivables turnover? 
Sales / Accounts Receivable 
How do you compute the total asset turnover? 
Sales/Total assets
How do you compute the profit margin? 
Net income/Sales
How do you compute return on assets? 
Net income/ total assets
How do you compute return on equity? 
Net income / total equity
How do you compute market capitalization? 
Price per share x shares outstanding
What is the use of using the percentage of sales approach? 
The goal is to develop a quick and practical way of generating pro forma statements.
What is another statement for future value (FV)? 
Compound value
What is a finite number of growing cash flows? 
Growing Annuity
What is capital budgeting? 
The decision making process for accepting or rejecting projects.
When do we accept a project while look at the NPV? 
If the NPV is greater than zero
When do we reject a project while looking at the NPV? 
If the NPV is less than zero
What is the first problem with the payback period? 
Timing of cash flows within the payback period
What is the second problem with the payback period? 
Payments after the payback period?
What is the third problem with the payback period? 
Arbitrary standard for payback period.
What is another method that decision makers use instead of the payback method?
Discounted payback method
What does IRR stand for? 
Internal Rate of Return
When do we accept a project while looking at IRR? 
If the IRR is greater than the discount rate
When do we reject a project while looking at IRR? 
If the IRR is less than the discount rate
What’s an independent project? 
One whose acceptance or rejection is independents of the acceptance or rejection of other projects
What is the modified IRR method?  
It handles the multiple IRR problem by combining cash flows only one change in sign remains
When is two or more project mutually exclusive? 
They are mutually exclusive if the firm can accept only one of them.
When calculating NPV what cash flows should only be used? 
Cash flows that are incremental to the project
What is a sunk cost? 
A cost that has already occurred
What is an opportunity cost? 
A cost that a firm takes which forgoes other opportunities for using the assets.
What is erosion? 
Erosion occurs when a new product reduces the sales, and, hence the cash flows of existing products.
What is synergy? Synergy occurs when a new product increases the cash flows of existing products.
What is net working capital? 
Net working capital is the difference between current assets and current liabilities.
What is the name of the two books that U.S. firms keep? 
Tax books & stockholders’ books
Who is the tax book for? 
The IRS uses this one
What is the stockholders’ book for? 
For the firms annual reports
What is the nominal cash flow? 
Actual dollars to be received or paid out.
What is the real cash flow? 
Cash flow’s purchasing power.
What rate must nominal cash flows be discounted at? 
Nominal rate
What rate must real cash flows be discounted at? 
Real rate
What is the Top-Down approach? 
Starting at the top of the income statement and work our way down to cash flow by subtracting costs, taxes, and other expenses.
What is the Bottom-Up approach? 
Starting at the bottom line (net income) and add back any non-cash deductions such as depreciation.
What is the capital gain or loss? 
Change in price of the stock divided by the initial price.
How do you calculate the average or mean of a frequency distribution? 
Add up all of the values and divide by the total number.
What is the most common measure of variability or dispersion? 
The variance and its square root, the standard deviation.
What is a eurobond?
A bond issued in multiple countries but denominated in a single currency, usuaslly the issuers home country
What is a foreign bond?
A bond issued in a single country and are usually demoninated in that countries currency.
What does a put bond allow the holder to do?
It allows the holder to force the issuer to buy the bond back at stated price
What does a CAT bond stand for?
Catastrophe bond
What is an indenture?
An agreement between borrowers and its creditors
What is preferred stock?
Preferred stock has a preference over common stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of corporation assets in the event of liquidation.
What is the expected return?
Return that an individual expects a stock to earn over the next period.
